


fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




a game of thrones by george rr martin
(a song of ice and fire: book 1)





as warden of the north, lord eddard stark counts it a curse when king robert bestows on him the office of the hand. his honour weighs him down at court where a true man does what he will, not what he must ... and a dead enemy is a thing of beauty. the old gods have no power in the south, stark's family is split and there is treachery at court. worse, a vengeance mad boy has grown to maturity in exile in the free cities beyong the sea. heir of the mad dragon king deposed by robert, he claims the iron throne.ever since my entry into the heady and wonderful peaks of fantasy literature following the release of the fellowship of the ring movie in 2001, i have been hard pressed to find an author greater than the inimitable j.r.r. tolkien. robin hobb’s ‘realm of the elderlings’ story tops it in terms of pure enjoyment for me, and terry pratchett writes with such skill he too edges out tolkien. but both authors have fallen short of the sheer scope that tolkien envisioned and, successfully, created.since then, i have only come across two authors who have come close to envisioning and successfully carrying out their literary creations to match tolkien; steven erikson and george r. r. martin.martin’s epic fantasy series, ‘a song of ice and fire,’ has managed to – in both scope and creativity, not to mention simple writing ability – capture and recreate the story that started in martin’s head. some authors try, and fail miserably. some capture and recreate perfectly, but the author’s scope is minimal.for martin though, in scope, creativity, and writing ability, a song of ice and fire is everything you want in an epic fantasy tale.the first book, ‘a game of thrones,’ was first released in 1996, and since then another three books have been released, with the fifth hopefully to be released this year (2009). set in a world very akin to our own medieval history, specifically the english war of the roses, a game of thrones introduces us to one of the greatest (and largest) character lists around.the story is told from eight perspectives. each perspective is held within a chapter which, when the characters move away from each other, allows the author to continually leave minor cliff-hangers at the end of each chapter.while six of the characters from this first book are from the same family, the perspective is shifted around in preceding books. death is commonplace, almost to the point of horror, but conducted in such a way that it, sadly, reminds us of our own bloody histories. martin does not shy away from the death, rape and plunder that would have been norm for the setting and in doing so provides a much more complete story.mindless destruction is often the cause for character splits and confrontations, and by the end of the book characters you assumed you would be attached too for some time are left headless, gutless or simply gone.throughout the entire series martin focuses almost primarily upon one continent. however there is one character, daenerys targaryen, who has been forced to flee to a separate continent as a young girl. at first i remember feeling disorientated and a little slighted at seemingly being provided this perspective which seemed nothing short of pointless. however as i have continued to read, she has become one of my favourite characters.‘a game of thrones’ is without a doubt one of the most involved and simultaneously enjoyable books i have ever read. dense to the point of labour, but captivating well past my bed time, martin knows exactly where to draw the line between lots of information and tedious boredom.if you like tolkien, or if you like the idea of an epic fantasy series, then you must pick up ‘a game of thrones’ as soon as possible. martin’s ability to create a world both entertaining and disastrously realistic is nothing short of mind numbingly brilliant.joshua s hillthe novel, a game of thrones, begins with an encounter with supernatural beings; this may give a false impression as to what will come. as the story begins to unfold, the theme moves strongly into the area of political intrigue and this forthcoming war that will happen as a result. the fantasy element, while always there plays only a minor role in the majority of the rest of the book.a game of thrones in not your usual fare, it is hard-hitting and bad things do happen to the good people. two families take centre stage in a battle for the throne; the starks and the lannisters. the stark family live in the cold hard north, winterfell is the seat of their domain. we are, using chapters headlined with the family names, introduced to the stark family. once we have familiarised ourselves with the stark’s, king robert and his family visit them at winterfell. king robert is married to a lannister, queen cersei. the king’s main reason for visiting is to offer eddard stark the honour of becoming his hand (most trusted advisor). eddard unhappily accepts and he must move to king’s landing in the south.eddard stark’s young son bran is injured during the king’s visit, whilst this is originally thought to be an accident that occurred when he was climbing it becomes apparent that the lannisters played a part in this tragedy.in an interesting sub-plot jon snow, eddard’s bastard son, joins the “black” or the “night’s watch”, a company of men who’s role is to guard a huge wall of ice in the far north. he is accompanied there by tyrion lannister, a dwarf. although they do not become friends they end up with a grudging respect for each other. once jon has pledged himself to the “black” he must forsake friends, family, marriage and children and his whole life will be spent in the protection of land.with eddard now in place as the king’s hand, tensions rise between himself and the lannisters. then, suddenly one day, the king is killed hunting wild boar and eddard and the lannister are drawn into a battle for the throne.finally, at the end, the fantasy element once again returns and we are left looking forward to the second instalment.this is a very good novel, full of twists and turns. it leaves you wanting more and move on to a clash of kings.floresiensis"colossal, staggering ... one of the greats" sfx"fantasy literature has never shied away from grandeur, but the sheer mind-boggling scope of this epic has sent other fantasy writers away shaking their heads ... it's ambition: to construct the twelve caesars of fantasy fiction, with characters so venemous they could eat the borgais." guardian10/10 an epic, action packed starter from george r. r. martin.


buy on amazon

reviews by floresiensis and joshua s hill
101 positive reader review(s) for a game of thrones
243 positive reader review(s) in total for the a song of ice and fire series







a game of thrones reader reviews

natkrit  from uk
this movie is very interesting in it's setting and story line. character development are so smooth they make you attached to the story. i recommend this series to everyone but keep in mind that it is quite dark.
9/10 (2021-02-21)







game of thrones  from kazakhstan
this is the best book i've ever read. it's gripping. it feels like you are in another world. i recommend it.
10/10 (2020-12-28)







eric from america
this is a great book. i enjoy the brutal realism of the characters and the world that martin has built.
10/10 (2019-03-27)







mcintosh from usa
how are they considering game of thrones high fantasy? it seems like the perfect example for low fantasy to me. most of the show revolves around politics and wars, and magic isn't a normal part of everyday life.
9/10 (2018-02-15)







brecken from usa
there are no books i love more than the a song of ice and fire. honestly, it deserves so much better than a 9.5 (based on books i've seen with higher ratings that don't measure up nearly as high as asoiaf). i almost exclusively read fantasy and these books are as good as lord of the rings, in a different way (a very different way). the best thing is they are all about character. in fantasy, characterization is often put to the side so that cool battles and fun magic can be explored more. there are only two characters in the entire series that i know are the bad guys, and the author even has me feeling bad for them at some points. every character feels real, and there are moments where i have hated every one of them, and moments where i have loved them. they all develop over time in ways that you can barely notice until it hits you that, wow, that character isn't evil anymore. there are a million plot lines, and each one is very real. no one cheats, no one can "just do the magic thing" to get out of a situation. actions have consequences. our favorite characters die, and the bad ones get to live. it is extremely well written, fast paced in some places and slow in others. the books have a depth that make you want to read the series over and over again so you can find out just what is going on with the characters, and catch all of the hints and symbolism the author puts in there. i will never look at fantasy the same again, this series has changed my world view.
10/10 (2017-03-20)







kath from england
takes a while to read and some parts are slow but the storyline is amazing and i highly recommend.
8/10 (2017-01-05)







bo from us
i loved agot. an absolute masterpiece. i could not put it down even if i had wanted to.
10/10 (2016-06-09)







sundar from lal
this book, and the other books published of the series, are as impressive and amazing piece of literature. the characters in the story are superb. i read these book and absolutely had to recommend them to every book buddy.
7/10 (2015-10-24)







rebekah from new zealand
this thick, material crammed book is written so brilliantly that it is impossible for one to get bored whilst reading. i enjoy the fact that everyone is somehow connected in the story, no matter how far away they all seem from each other. what additionally made this novel awesome was that at each end of chapters, grrm would leave a cliff-hangar, forcing you to read on till it's 3:34 on a school morning. i would rate this book 11/10 is i could.
10/10 (2015-05-04)







ewan from scotland
this book was the first book i finished on my own and not being forced (english in school). this book is so good that it made me, someone who would never even try a book. get into reading, you know it's good.
10/10 (2015-04-10)







alice from england
i will give it just over half stars, purely because i think that the concept is brilliant, and the series begins very strongly, with the first book in particular being excellent. however, sadly, what could have been an explosive series slowly dissolved into an anti climax with absolutely nothing happening. book one, and most of book two are very good, book three has some interesting parts, although admittantly it begins to loose structure, book four however, i struggled with despite flying through the preceding books and i gave up on book five. it seems that the interesting characters that martin established in the first book have either been killed off or their storylines have dried out and have subsequently been replaced with much less interesting characters and storylines. all in all, the disappointment factor when reflecting upon what this story could have been is perhaps the worst thing about it. it could have been great, and it has its moments, but when you look at the potential that martin had to begin with, which slowly dissolves into nothing, it's just such a shame that he couldn't carry it out and that's the worst thing about the series, the dreadful waste of potential. still, i wouldn't say avoid it completely, just be aware that this story will probably not play out the way you had hoped and you may well find yourself as disappointed as i was.
6/10 (2014-12-17)







alex from greece
i absolutely loved it, the whole idea, the writting style... but damn i have to admit that the fourth book was bloody boring. i do not get why everyone disses that "dance with dragons" (fifth) book though. i found it quite interesting.
7/10 (2014-12-02)







maria from us
"six" as a rating is deceptive. i gave 10 to the first three books, and single stars to the last two books, and 6-7 is what i got. sadly, the last two books take all the momentum of the first three, and flush it down the toilet. i wish they didn't. i'm waiting for book six, and hoping that martin gets his act together, but at this point the story is so bloated that it's unlikely to happen. if anyone wants an excellent series that moves like a well-oiled machine from start to finish, try joe abercrombie's first law trilogy.
6/10 (2014-11-30)







wayne from us
awesome book, enticing read. love the series and people complaining how it's poorly written... seriously?this is really a great series, not a single one of you could even come close to matching martin's writing.
10/10 (2014-06-25)







jayne from united states
for a while, i've been trying to figure out how i feel about these books (i've read all 5). they're a deviation from the traditional fantasy storyline (hero that overcomes all vs. true evil) and i can appreciate and respect mr. martin's boldness. i do think he does it well, the story is well written and always keeps you guessing. i didn't have a problem with the multiple characters and their separate chapters (i made it through the wheel of time series and loved it), but i did have a problem with caring what happens. i like that mr. martin has no qualms about killing off whatever character needed to die and the revolving complexity of the plot is really interesting. but honestly, what i think he lost between the multiple characters and their impermanence was making me care about the character. i think he shows their negative sides much more than any goodness in them and in not knowing how long they're going to be around, i found myself avoiding getting too emotionally involved in their stories to the point that i just don't really care what happens to them anymore. i also agree with another reviewer here in that somewhere the overall plot gets lost. also i'm just confused about the role of the whole "winter is coming" idea - i would like to see that come to more prominence because i could see that forcing everyone to set aside their differences and their petty politics to fight a common foe - and it's seemed like that since the very first chapter. overall, i say kudos to mr. martin for daring to break the traditional fantasy conventions and hopefully opening a whole new realm of possibilities for other writers but i hope that after this series, he learns from his mistakes and writes a much better one. i give it 6 stars for boldness, creativity, interesting characters and good writing.
6/10 (2014-05-15)







felix from america
an absoloutely brilliant novel. in my opinion, a game of thrones is one of the greatest fantasy novels ever written by one of the best authors ever. george rr martin is able to capture emotions and build suspense and leaves you wanting more. a truly great novel.
10/10 (2013-11-14)







jake from australia
to all the haters, you're entitled to your opinion. i like to recall the story of how the producers of the tv show read a part of the first book and were immediately overwhelmed, impressed, taken by the imagery, the ambience, the sense of place and the characters. so, at least 2 people in the world were touched by the book. now that's 2 more than a lot of other writers.
8/10 (2013-11-01)







anthony from uk
to those who say the writing isn't good, i challenge you to write at martin's level. you'd fail. the different pespectives add depth to the story but i understand that some people might have trouble understanding.
9/10 (2013-06-21)







d'argantel from japan
since so far i read but game of thrones, the first book to the series. i wish to note that in no mean i judge the series alltogether. g.r.r. martin have created an interesting world with lots of likeable charachters, epic story and unique in a sense playing with reader... the problem i have is that it's boring. no, not the story, however overdone and simple, but the narrative. never have i reade such flat descriptions and emotionless dialouge, not to mention forced expositions... honestly , the idea of charachter perspective told story with each chapter being presented from pov of different one involved in an event is nice, the execution is less than impressive. if not for the hbo show i would have hard time getting into the presented world. another thing are all the deus ex machina literaly forcing the plot to continue the intended way. [spoiler] honestly no one thought that it is odd that before joffrey there was no other baratheon of blond hair?[/spoiler] to be honest i am almost sure the whole book series was written from the very first page to be made into a movie or, as it came to be, tv series. hbo patches some holes, adds here, takes away there and makes the story overall better and of course... puts life into the charachters and dialogue! i hope the other books of the series are better because so far my jaw hurts from yawning.
6/10 (2013-06-15)







gordon from oklahoma, usa
a game of thrones, and the rest of the fire and ice series, are the finest stories i have read in many years, and i am a prolific reader who enjoys many different categories of literature. after having read tolkien's lord of the rings trilogy as well as the hobbit a few years ago while the peter jackson movies were being progressively released, i am of the opinion that "a game of thrones" and the entire fire and ice series to this point are several steps above anything tolkien ever wrote. an added bonus is the result of hbo is doing a great job of bringing the fire and ice books to the homes of people who would never consider picking up a 1000 page novel. anybody who bothers to read each of the books from both writers can count themselves lucky to be able to enjoy such well written literature. for those who have seen the hbo series and enjoyed it so far, you should read a game of thrones and decide for yourself if the written material is superior to the theatrical release. i would also put this series above the harry potter books and movies.
8/10 (2013-05-23)







emily from england
read it because of the series on television and am not ashamed. it does include adult scenes, which i thought fitted the atmosphere of the novel and i am a teenager, so it is understandable i would find them more awkward... i didn't. you can't complain about not understanding the novel if you don't read all of it, including the 'boring' parts. all the tolkien lovers need to broaden their horizons. grrm isn't trying to be tolkien, he's an epic writer on his own with his own style.
10/10 (2013-05-20)







kah from brazil
this is modernity, i guess. the way of narrating a story has certainly changed. things are about discourse and action, now. "less plot" and "more character". this is a great epic which is providing nice adaptations. of course, the plot is very long and, because of this, its quality oscilates sometimes. i myself didn't like the fourth book (the first three books were an amazing experience) and the fifth has been little playful. but this is not about comparing g.r.r.m to tolkien or lewis. this is about accepting what this generation is producing and understand it withouth making anacronisms.
8/10 (2013-05-01)







thomas from england
i would like to point out that the book being reviewed is game of thrones, not the whole series, a song of ice and fire, which many people seem to be forgetting...
10/10 (2013-04-15)







eric showatt from australia
people seem to think the reason why the opinion about this series is so divided because the way the author kills off the character and the amount of angst, miseries this series content. while this may seem like a plausible reason, the real reason is actually far more simple. game of thrones sucks. period. now i'm not here to troll or bash the author - i'm here to review this series honestly. there is no doubt in my mind that grrm is one of the most prolific writer of our time. his world building ability is on par with tolkien, and the character he has created are very realistic and interesting. one can almost read game of throne like an alternative history if we forget all the magical element within the story. the political motivation of each character are very well defined and the consequences for failure in this series are heavy - you are lucky if you managed to die a clean death, as is the case with ned stark. he died, sure, but there are many character who ended up wishing they were dead but couldn't quite manage it because their tormentors prevent them from doing so. there is beauty in this book. beauty in the finality of death and the cruelty of living. however... i would like to ask every reviewer and every reader of game of thrones, what is the actual plot of this series? lots of things happen, sure. you get loads and loads of characters. each of them have their own arc. some gets killed off, some don't, but are any of them truly relevant? just consider this for a second and you will see what an appalling story the series is - it's not actually a story. it's many story woven into one book, like a game that contains several character sheet and no main plot whatsoever. things unfold, but it's just things that happens. if i were to describe what this story is about, i would simply say "it's a book about a bunch of things that happened in a land called westeros", and that's pretty much what the series has become by the end of the third book. now i will go on to say that the first book is simply breath taking. there is actually a plot, and the characters pov are consistent and - most importantly - relevant. you get the honorable idiot ned stark who is trying to figure out why jon arryn was killed, while his wife and kids are trying to figure out who pushed bran off the balcony. the two conspiracies tied together, because what bran witnessed was the key to ned stark's hunt for the reason why jon arryn is killed and why he is becoming involved in the first place. the subplot with dany? that's just the icing on the cake, like something that you can either read or ignore completely. the tradition continues on to the second book, after ned stark's tragedy, the land is divided and the war happens. we see the brutal aftermath, we see the people fighting for the iron throne. while the plot began to dwindle after the first book, the characters are presented with one goal - that is to fight for the iron throne, with a subplot of getting their loved ones back to safety. however, after the third book everything went downhill. the war is more or less resolved. the winner and losers are already evident. major character are killed off, new ones are introduced but none of them are coherent anymore. everything literally becomes "just shit that happens", and the entire series has become a wait for "something to happen". and that's why the series has become such a disappointment in so many eyes.
if anyone has to ball to say grrm can't write for a damn, they have no business in writing or creative industry in general. however, if anyone says reading a song of ice and fire is becoming increasingly pointless, then you have my sympathy. i've no doubt that things are going to change now that dany and tyrion is coming back to the mainland to reclaim their home, but as it stands today, game of thrones is a massive disappointment that has a strong beginning but poorly executed plot throughout the middle.
6/10 (2013-04-08)







manpreet from india
this book is full of all the emotions and elements; this book is a journey full of violence, treachery, loyalty honesty, love, families, romance, conspiracies, back stabbing and much more. read the complete review of the book - game of thrones on my blog - http://manpreetkaur93.blogspot.in/2013/03/book-review-game-of-thrones.html

8/10 (2013-03-13)







maja from croatia
i studied literature and know that some of the best books ever written did not develop stories, characters and endings the way the audience wants or deserves. it's not a matter of a compromise. however, these days, for the fact of globalisation we as readers want to think that the book, the author and the reader are one big factory. i prefer waiting for each book sequence in suspense, even if it does not satisfy my expectations. jrrm's song of ice and fire in my opinion is simply amazing, and it's definitively not easy to read. it's like an expanding storm that swirls the characters and plots in concentric circles. consumes time for sure, and if you think it's too long - you should read shorter books. if you think it's overly descriptive - you're missing the beauty of visualisation of every spot and object and character, when you should be grateful to jrrm for letting you see what he is seeing. it's not a one-read-book and will show you something new every time you reread. 
10/10 (2013-02-25)







hans from belgium
i enjoyed reading it. and i will finish it. this is mainly because i believe the story has enormous potential to end , and i quote the great academic j clarkson , on ' a bombshell'. but i do have to critisize a bit. the book is frustratingly long. to long. 5 books would have sufficed. at this point i'm acctually just hoping jrrm doesnt screw up the ending his readerers/fans deserve.
7/10 (2013-02-08)







jonathan from united states
this is a great and wonderful read, from start to finish it keeps you guessing and gets you involved with each and every character, so much so that you find yourself falling in love with each one of them, even the not so nice ones, and if you see a bad rating it's simply because that person did not get it or understand the plot. 
10/10 (2013-02-03)







anon from sydney, australia
it's not that the author is trying to say that good people die, it's just that a lot of people really don't get what goes on. it's the most cunning and luckiest that survive. the characters do tend to change quickly from time to time, which would level my rating down a bit, and some of the characters i love to hate. it is unpredictable and the last two books have been a droll, again lowering my rating. overall, it's a great fantasy book, and better in quality than a lot of other fantasy novels. the lore is immersive and detailed, though some parts unecessary. the book may have started out as lancaster vs york (as in war of the roses, which is what the books are based on) but now it's turned into a massive fight for dominance over land and power, with no one exactly safe and leaving a lot of hype. do hope martin picks up in the next book and hurries it up a bit. and i don't get why people say the good guys always lose... most of the characters are grey and do what they believe is right. the good guys occasionally triumph. for the people saying that they want to argue why it's not good, wish there was a comment section.
8/10 (2013-02-01)







jon from uk
captain frogbert, you a clearly a moron who is obsessed with lotr. i really don't even know where to start with how wrong you are on every point you made in your review of this book. if you are really that upset with this book you should just go read lotr another eleventy twelve times and leave the rest of us alone.
10/10 (2013-01-25)







anon from anon
omg i have just finished the blooming lot of them and i have to exactly the same confusion, i am utterly exasperated that barely a plot line has been concluded... the whole thing after the quite good clash of kings has become an utter nonsense, time i will never get back.
10/10 (2013-01-23)







sean from australia
it's ok. he's not a particularly good writer, in terms of characterisation (some of the pov writing of the younger characters is execrable) and the book is pointlessly long. i have severe difficulty in accepting that any reader who gave this book 10 stars has seriously thought at all about the possibility that a 15 year old could successfully lead a hardened army into battle without a viceroy pulling he tactical strings or that a 4 year old would be capable of being the master of a a wild wolf... ok it's fantasy, but that doesn't mean it has to be total b.s. if it wasn't for tyrion the book would stink quite badly. convolution is no substitute for good writing, by the way. good for fantasy writing but it ain't great... watch the series instead, still contains a teeth- gratingnumber of 'yes, my liege' type conversations, but again, tyrion saves the day.
7/10 (2013-01-14)







guy from england
i am outraged at the position of this series on the top 100 list. this should be at least second (the malazan book of the fallen is also awsome). out of the many, many books that i have read these are my favourite: the many interwoven storylines are well thoughtout and presented. the books set a new level of fantasy, portraying a brutal, gritty and mature story with many hundreds of realistic characters. there are no good vs evil here, no super powered imortal heroes. martin is a master writer, he leaves you laughing and weeping and it is extremly easy to loose yourselve in his world. once i got the first book (purchased on a whim) i was hooked and had read the whole series on the inside of a month. read!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
10/10 (2013-01-08)







john from john
incredible. simply incredible. best high fantasy series i have ever read.
10/10 (2012-12-27)







andy from uk
the most engrossing read i just couldnt put it down. the first and third books are by far the best in the series up to this point in fact i read the third book in a fortnight. it does however contain an enourmous amount of characters and book four and five do meander somwhat however they are worth reading if not just for the character of ramsey bolton who is perhaps the most despicable creation ever to polute prose. overall a satisfying read and i just hope grrm finishes the series before time catches up with him
9/10 (2012-11-05)







john from australia
possibly one of the best series i've read in a while, every chapter is a cliff hanger.
10/10 (2012-10-25)







fateh from canada
"words are wind" go read the book to see for yourself how amazing it is!
10/10 (2012-10-16)







uday from canada
i think most of the readers giving negative remarks just either can't take the complexity of the story or are the kind of people that have to have everybody live and have a corny happy ending. i mean one of the great things that grrm has done with this series is how he makes you really love the characters-yes even cersei- and how he isn't afraid of actually killing off those characters. that alone makes the story so much more interesting and suspenseful, because you never know when any character might die. also, as for those of you saying that you don't see the importance of characters like jon, dany and sansa you just haven't read far enough into the series. they're chapters become very interesting and you can really relate to them. the first three books have to be the best. the characters are rich, writing style superb, more of the fantasy and magic further on in the series and way the chapters are split really make you see things on a much larger scale and make you appreciate the effort of all that detail even more. another thing, it takes lots of superb writing and imagination to not just use the "magic" part of fantasy to solve all of the conflicts, and than you can appreciate characters like tyrion who use their intellect a lot more. if you liked the wheel of time i feel you will like the song of ice and fire series just as much or more. 
10/10 (2012-10-16)







jake from united states
personally, i find people who really criticize this series only look at things on the surface (it's too long, too many characters, too graphic, poor characters, etc.). they don't look at things deeper, try and see why things are the way they are, and just think of this great series as a pointless kill fest. in reality, a lot of the space is meant to build tension and expand on things, the characters are much deeper than people give them credit for, and if you can't follow along then there is nothing i can do for you. also, why would anyone say martin's writing is bad? i think his prose is excellent and really develops emotion, atmosphere, and setting.
10/10 (2012-10-07)







wes from australia
first off - this series isn't for everyone. it introduces a lot of characters, so if you struggle with that you won't like it. second, no one is safe. for this, i love the series. but for many people who need to have their heroes survive - you will hate this. third, the writing is long - but beautifully written, and i think some people will miss a lot of the intricacies and don't quite get the writing style. this series breaks a lot of convention, but if you can handle that and have the patience you will love it! if you struggle with multiple characters, need a safe happy warm ending and like a more traditional style this series isn't for you, and frankly that is where a lot of these negative comments are coming from. also many of the negative reviews abandoned the series early on, and in my opinion the second volume of storm of swords is where it gets amazing. one reviewer felt characters got killed off and the story arcs ended there - to that, i say they aren't getting the bigger picture, but i won't say specifics as not to reveal any spoilers. bear in mind it will be years before the next book, so if you don't want to wait that long (and possibly many years after that for the final book) then you might want to avoid the series. otherwise, great read.
9/10 (2012-09-27)







jon from england
overall, a very good series. the first three books are excellent (the third truly brilliant, 10/10 if considered in it's own right, in my opinion). the last two not so good, but still a reasonable read (i'm hoping that martin will pick up his game again for the next books). it's been levelled here that he's not the best writer in the world and that's probably fair, but then neither was tolkien (and he was an oxford don) and i'm unlikely to read erikson or jordan for their literary value either, if it comes to it. he tells a good story and, whilst they're not as atypical as some reviews might like to suggest, he creates characters that you actually care about. this is evidenced here by the number of peole moaning about how he's killed off their favourite characters - it wouldn't upset you if you didn't like them. one thing that i particularly like about the series is the sparing use of magic. it's always been an annoyance in fantasy that when faced with a difficult situation, the writer could (quite literally) wave a magic wand at it. it also increases the impact on the reader when there actually is magic. as a result, this isn't a series for fans of more overtly magical fantasy. there aren't wizards, elves, goblins and orcs pouring out of the woodwork here. i think that due to the size of the series, there are now a lot of plot strands for martin to hold together. this means that, firstly, it's tough to follow some times and secondly, it's tough for martin to write. as a result, it takes him a while to get each installment written, so you need patience and a good memory. finally, there's a lot of sex and violence. really, who cares? get over it.
8/10 (2012-09-10)







bob from england
this is a fantastic book but too little action and its quite slow to start.
8/10 (2012-09-03)







ivan from canada
wow, these books are incredible. best books i've ever read. do not listen to the trolls calling it poorly written. the number of different story lines and character incentives is incredible.. probably too much for some readers to understand and they get lost with the amount of characters. do yourself a favour and get these books!!!!!
10/10 (2012-08-29)







brett from canada
not sure if half the people are elitest or the other half are fanboys but i found the book very engrossing, funny and angering at times although i hate that he killed off my 3 favorite characters.
8/10 (2012-08-28)







maurice from cayman islands
anyone not loving this series must be seriously dull or retarded. i have an iq of 147, making me a genius and have read just about all the great fantasy series. this series yields to none.
10/10 (2012-08-20)







alex from italy
the best book i ever read, just finished the third book and i can't get enough of it!
10/10 (2012-08-17)







andy from ottawa, canada
when i read these books (and i did read 1-5) there was not one moment where i was not totally into it. once you get to know the characters, the books get better and better all the time... never mind the sex and the battles (for all you action thrillers who need "actions" all the time). after book 1-3 there are no requirements for big battles scenes at least until the characters are deemed ready to do so. its fantasy, its action, its drama, its horror, its all i need all at once. george r.r. martin did a great achievement so far writing this most excellent story and i'm sure the next two books will be as good as the first five. - cersei is sooooo cunning!
10/10 (2012-08-17)







veronique from canada
the best book i have ever read! 
10/10 (2012-08-09)







plato from timbuktu
nice writing style, excellent plot, amazing world. i love how martin weaves together seemingly unconnected plotlines and shows us so many perspectives, giving us a much more sophisticated understanding of the story. the world martin created is awesomely huge and complicated, although the endless introductions of new characters can be hard to get into. also, the not-deaths get pretty annoying after a while. other than this, i have no criticism for the series, and am eagerly awaiting the release of the 6th book.
8/10 (2012-07-25)







jw from canada
the best series of books ever written, imho. martin is the shakespeare of our time.
10/10 (2012-07-25)







nat from india
well i had heard a lot about this book online and saw that it had got great reviews from everyone, moreover the hbo series of agot was also there so i finally decided to read this one.the book is um something very unique and good in its own way. it's gritty and mature more to the extent than i had anticipated, the plot is laid out brilliantly. the storyline and characters are good though it seems that martin according to me didn't satisfactorily end it. the tortures through which the characters are put through and it seems that martin's focus on keeping things like this makes me wonder that there won't be a great ending to this thing and things would cross to such an extent that it wouldn't matter at all. one more thing is that it's surprising a bit that there is absolutely next to no magic though there are some fantasy elements but for most of the times it seems like maybe a non fantasy novel. the book was with all things still great. full of twists and surprises. definitely a good read though maybe not for everyone.
6/10 (2012-07-19)







jani from finland
i can't really understand many of the reviews posted here. the sex scenes i don't have a problem with. it's not like they are great, but i don't get ticked off about them either. the only complaint i agree with is the occasionally dull storyline (arya's chapters mostly) but there are just more good chapters than bad. but the thing i really don't get is the overwhelming complaining of g.r.r. martin killing the likeable characters. i mean come on people! spoilers!: the only important and likeable characters he has killed have been 1) ned, who's from the old storyline like robert with most of his grand deeds already done, 2) robb, who was not a pov, and clearly not invested in storywise as much as his bastard brother, 3) khal drogo, again not a pov, 4) oberyn martell, appears only in like 4 chapters, not a pov, 5) renly, not pov, his death making great room for stannis character arc, 6) tywin, who also was not a pov, and his death granted a great boost for tyrion's character arc. i might be forgetting someone but not anyone special. remember, catelyn does not die, bran and rickon don't die either, not davos, not tyrion, not jaime, not daenerys, not brienne, not arya and it also seems that the hound is still alive, working with his sins as are gravedigger. i am pretty sure that jon doesn't die in book 5 either, just another martin cliffhanger. a lot of the unlikeable characters have died. joffrey, the mountain, balon greyjoy and theon is a spacecase. spoilers end. i myself found the books great, but a rating of 9 is accurate because george is occasionly stretching the storyline through cliffhangers and dull chapters.
9/10 (2012-07-16)







frank from cork
the best fantasy series of all time in my opinion. it's a complex plot that makes you work and even re-read the books to pick up the clues, but if you do then you will be rewarded. it's not for everyone and if you want instant gratification, black and white good guys and bad guys, clean-cut dragon-slaying heroes, evil wizards, etc., or if you need to have the plot spoonfed to you, then asoiaf is not for you. if you're the type of idiot who skips whole chapters and still expects to get something from the book, then asoiaf is most certainly not for you. grrm is a genius and this series is a brilliantly woven masterpiece. that said, i'm not surprised by some of the negative comments, there will always be people who prefer the likes of 50cent to beethoven.
10/10 (2012-07-12)







matt cole from vancouver bc
if writers are gods - and they are - then george r.r. martin is zeus, king of gods. martin flawlessly weaves a tale of epic fantasy to launch, which is arguably the best fantasy series ever ( i know the lord of the rings and the malazan empire have their fans). game of thorns achieves not only because of a great plot, which does not stagnate, but because of the intriguing characters, both male and female, that are brought to life through martin's skill. tyrion, sandor clegane (the hound), cersei, arya, and daenerys are particularly memorable. this first installment is not heavily loaded with magic and the supernatural. other than the appearance of a supernatural race in the opening pages and again briefly later on, and the emergence of other mythological creatures in the closing pages, game of thrones is devoid of magic and the supernatural. the conflict is among men and women, noble houses positioning themselves for the throne of a kingdom. the book is laden with political intrigue, conspiracy, ambition, and hidden family secrets. still, while the great houses maneuver for control of the throne, the reader is ever aware of a long dormant evil, that may rise to threaten the populace of the seven kingdoms. i am looking forward to getting into clash of kings & storm of swords and beyond. as per the suggestion from other reviewers that this book is too explicit, i can say i have no idea where this is coming from. i would not consider either the sex or violence in this book too explicit. certainly steven erikson and r. scott bakker have gone farther in their series.
10/10 (2012-07-11)







john  from ljubljana
i have read the first three books and they are all fantastic to read; they involve everything a great fantasy book needs. the series has an absurd amount of astonishingly realistic characters who couldn't be more different and yet at the same time they are all still the characters inhabiting this amazing fantasy world. i fell in love with the game of thrones almost immediately, mainly because of unexpected turns and twists, that are not so common in this genre. i highly recommend it to all fantasy fans out there.

10/10 (2012-07-01)







cat fitzpatrick from london, uk
i think a main reason why there is such a difference in opinion regarding this series is that the fantasy element is very small compared to the huge volume of story. the main strength of a song of ice and fire lies in the politics of a kingdom embroiled in a civil war where there isn't just two armies battling for the throne, there are up to seven various forces struggling to lay claim to either part or the whole of westeros. there are very good characters that come through - tyrion lannister for one is really interesting, and i really like the deviousness of petyr baelish - but as you go through the books the volume of characters increases, which can swamp the story in parts, and characters can vanish for quite a long time whilst the others are worked through. the story can be quite slow and repetitive, and not enough time is spent to really build all of the main characters as well as they could be. sex is also overused with everybody at it like rabbits or raping their way up and down the length of westeros. however, some great set pieces are developed such as the use of wildfire in a river battle, and if you like epic stories this is richly detailed if maybe too over ambitious as to the amount of stuff crammed in. it's worth a read, but takes a lot of investment of time to get to the good bits.
7/10 (2012-07-01)







james from philadelphia
this is one of my favorite series of all time. being able to understand so many different characters' perspectives on the books' events makes the series an extremely interesting read. books 1-3 are absolutely brilliant. 4 and 5 are a little less so, but i partly chalk that up to the fact that you only see half the pov characters in each. i am eagerly awaiting the final two installments and i hope they can live up to the promise that the series has shown up till now.
8/10 (2012-06-15)







j�rn from hagalid
amzing is an understatement.
10/10 (2012-06-04)







erik from ohio
the first three books are great. they held my attention throughout with lots of different things happening in the same time period due to the variety of characters. i like the setup of writing chapters about certain characters, and it's even more exciting when one character's fate brings them alongside another main character in the same chapter. i wish grrm would have kept the starks intact with their direwolves completing the immensely strong family, but it's not all happy endings in life either. 
8/10 (2012-04-30)







modesto from new york
this is a great adult fantasy series. this story is not for everyone. especially for people who like sexy elves and tough dwarfs... not for those who seek instant gratification. this is fantasy, a whole new fantasy, an adult fantasy. i love how people are mad that certain characters are killed off but yet they bash the book, if you were not hooked and attached to the character you wouldn't care someone got knocked off. so that is what grrm does, he hooks you right in, (**spoiler**) i see a lot of complaints over ned's death, ned is in the book maybe a handful of chapters, haha. (**end of spoiler**) sure there is a lot of fill in but that makes the world he created bigger, brighter, darker, dangerous, sexier and more alive than most reads out there today. this story is fantasy, thriller, exotic and poetic, you can argue it's real, if westeros existed and dothraki... that is how people would have lived, killed and ventured. it would be a song of ice and fire!
10/10 (2012-04-16)







george from toronto
this story is the best ever written in any genre, period. the first book is a wonder, the second is as good, and the third is best in the series. i agree, the fourth and fifth aren't my favourites. but they're still above-average. i can't wait to see how the story concludes -- martin is planning a total of 7 books. i read some of the negative reviews. the ones who are negative put right in their review that they skipped chapters. what? martin is a genius story teller, he didn't write 1,000 pages for his health. it was for a purpose. if you skip a chapter, how on earth can you complain if the rest of the story stops making sense? the man is a god. i read erikson, tolkien, rothfuss, hemmingway, and also crap like the hunger games. martin's story is #1 by a significant margin.
10/10 (2012-04-10)







claire from cardiff
finished reading 'game of thrones' last night. now i am just falling out of bed to get to my nearest bookshop for 'a clash of kings'. yup. it's that good! haven't been able to put it down...
10/10 (2012-03-12)







kaleb from colorado
after having just finished reading the first book in the series. anyone who says it is boring or not well written has odd to questionable taste. this book is easy to read and i found my self engrossed in the plot and totally lost in the world the author created. martin leaves it no secret that characters make the story. i don't see how people can be so quick to criticize. i have only read the 1st book, but i would say martin is the equivalent of hemmingway when it comes to the fantasy genre. i was lost at times due to the amount of characters, but between watching the show and reading the novel, it wasn't that bad. the book definitely is better than the series. the hbo writers tried to make it adaptable to their style shows. there are gay references, an over emphasis on sex, and it strays from the dialogue of the book where i thought it would be better to just be faithful to the book. overall an amazing read and i'm looking forward to the 2nd book.
10/10 (2012-03-06)







alex from alaska
this is a different kind of fantasy book. this is my favorite of the 5 books out so far in the series. i like it because it lays such a powerful groundwork. (spoiler alert). i thought the prologue with the others was an introduction to a world of magic and wizardry. much the opposite. eddard stark goes south, i thought to right the wrongs of the kingdom. no, he dies. i felt like sansa in the book - i grew up reading 'fantasy' novels where good wins and good and evil are clear and heroes did great more than human things. but martin is not interested in that kind of story - he is telling history the way it happens - to individuals involved in the muck. i was drawn to the book for its fantasy roots, but in truth this is a book for anyone interested in political thrillers or history buffs. it's like reading the diaries of many historical figures, and putting the history together that way, as a historian does it. i don't think it's accurate to refer to martin as the american tolkien. few characters in tolkien's world are interested in being human. they are superbly good or superbly bad. i prefer to compare him to victor hugo, specifically to les miserables, which goes into great detail in order to explain a moment in a characters life. the book doesn't tell you the moment is important, because it has become important. such is the ability of martin to cause us to care about his characters. must-read.
10/10 (2012-03-04)







john from new york
do not listen to the low rated reviews. anyone who claims that "nothing is happening" or that the characters "lack depth" are probably not capable of picking up on how much is actually happening in the book. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







ben from california
i can't see why people are so divisive in their reviews of this book... i almost listened to the negative comments, and i'm glad i didn't! it is extremely entertaining for those who like to actually read, and i suggest any fan of the fantasy genre to pick it up immediately. you'll find yourself rooting for characters you wouldn't think to -tyrion lannister is perhaps the best anti-hero i've ever read. read it! 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







michael patrick from niceville, florida
great series. i'm on the second book and like them so far. many of these reviews have said that as you progress the writing gets weaker, but so far i see no cause or effect of that. bottom line great series similar to tolkien but easier to understand and not so boring.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







joel from australia
these comments seem to be either at the bottom or the top of the scale. it's quite confusing, really. i'm currently on the second book and loving it, the main flaw i have is that i find bran's character and his chapters are boring, but that's subjective. aside from that, i recommend these books if you aren't afraid of some adult themes.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







simao from vila nova de cacela
excellent book, a must read, tyrion lannister is simply incredible, lots of twists. incredibly written.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







anders from norway
an excellent book! if you like action fantasy you should deffinitly read this book. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







chris from middlesbrough
excellent book, loved the structure of it. the series was a little dissapointing (only minor things such as tyrion's war efforts not being the same as in the book, and possibly a general low 'first series' budget). i'm just instantly thrown into the fictional world that grrm created and wish that i'd lived in times like that myself!.. brilliant
10/10 (2012-03-01)







jessica from belgium
nearly finishing book 2 - a clash of kings - of the ice & fire series, this is indeed an incredible way of writing , capturing times that we will never know. because of the multiple character roles, you get different perspectives of the storyline and the plots combined. reads a lot more fluent then lord of the rings ever did. highly recommendable author. this is what fantasy really needs to be .. i won't be surprised if these were filmed by james cameron or steven spielberg one day. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







mike from pittsburgh
i just don't understand how some reviewers are giving this series less than nine stars and are calling the writing middle school level. martin's prose is leagues above any modern fantasy writer and is better then tolkien in my opinion. i have read some good modern fantasy, namely erikson and sanderson, and none of them even come close to matching the character depth and plot development that martin weaves. hands down, this is the greatest fantasy series of all time.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







gary from vancouver, bc
this book will always have a special place in my heart for it's heavily inspiring story-line. george r.r. martin has the vigorous spirit to lift this tale of the altered europe (via medieval period), with plenty of appealing characters which seem astute as they are tantalizing. the fact that it doesn't follow a typical mono myth had me interested, because many high fantasy that i have read, had done so. overall this book had a few faults (what book doesn't?) though it was an enriching tale. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







kyle from kentucky
hmmmmmm.... lets imagine for a second, you're stuck in a time period where there are no cell phones, security cameras or even police around to keep the naughty kids from coming out to play. what do you think would happen? probably wouldn't be pretty, but we now chose to forget that our morals of today weren't the morales of ancestors. they didn't have welfare or the salvation army, if you were hungry or freezing you would probably have to do some pretty bad things to better your situation. and if you've bashed a man's head in for a chunk of bread some of the other things that grrm writes about probably wouldn't seem to bad. i think he does an excellent job capturing the morale dilemmas of the time period. if you think murder, rape and incest weren't common in that time period then you're extremely naive! great book though, do read.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







connor from america
i find it funny how the shallow reader claims this book is all about good versus evil when it's really about how people are neither good or evil but grrm is a great writer and one i will gladly keep following.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







zuzurlo from italy
stunning! that's what this serie is! i couldn't even sleep because i had to read more and more. it's the best around for whoever is not afraid of a little adult content. the only downside is that it's 2 books and many years short of the end.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







tony from uk
my god how is this series not in the top ten! george rr martin is the american tolkien. a song of ice and fire is top notch adult fantasy and there is a good reason why these books are best sellers.
the current rating here is not a good advertisement for the website. i voted 10/10 to try and bump it up a bit.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







aaron from australia
an engaging and thrilling start to a fanastic series, game of thrones is fantasy filled with political intrigue, double crosses, betrayals and shocking reversals. the characters of game of thrones are the stand out feature, with deep personailites, it's difficult to identify who the real heroes and villains are (and after five books i still don't know).
oddly these reader reviewers have been hijacked by puritans who feel compelled to descibe the books as dull and obscene.
allow me to retort: what a load of bollocks. while sex and violence are elements of the book, they're never used gratuitously. anyone who claims the books are pruile or offensive, or that they felt ill reading them, obviously hasn't read many novels above a harry potter reading level. there's more explicit content in the 117 bible verses that make song of songs of solomon. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







rod from west country
i saw the hbo mini series, and thought that the book is usually better, i will read it. i am so pleased i did!
absorbing, super epic, no one is safe, not the heroes, not the villains. there is magic but malevolant........
downside only five books...
10/10 (2012-03-01)







william from london
i think that this is a good read, however, having read four of the books now, i am struggling to carry on. firstly martin seems to take an age to write his books, and secondly, it just to seems to me to be unbelievable how many of the main protagonists and characters are all killed off or changed dramatically in such a short period of time. so, a good read, but don't get too close to any of the characters, as by the end of a novel, it is likely something you don't want to happen to them... has.
6/10 (2012-03-01)







rob from uk
epic is an understatement.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







kyle from indiana
i've only just started this series and i plan to finish it. it's the best thing my eyes have ever seen, hands down!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







paul from glasgow
steep learning curve at the start as martin introduces a plethora of new characters in rapid succession; still found myself sucked in completely and ended up reading the whole series. 
9/10 (2012-03-01)







shell from winchester
brilliant series - can't wait for film series.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







ryan from wisconsin
a game of thrones definitely deserves to be rated up with lord of the rings. has some of the most interesting and in-depth characters of any fantasy book.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







jp from finland
i have read first three books of this series so far and enjoyed it very much. grrm is not a superb writer in all meanings of that but he definitely knows how to write hard as rock fantasy series. 
9/10 (2012-03-01)







john from leeds
a song of ice and fire is pretty much the last word in medieval fantasy. martin's work is in a league of its own, head and shoulders above the next comparable work in terms of plotting, characterisation, world building and quality of writing. other authors may as well abandon the medieval milieu and explore new avenues in fantasy, as there is little left to say on the matter that this series does not say better.

10/10 (2012-03-01)







mathias from gothenburg
simply the best fantasy epic ever written. nuff said.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







tim from perth-andover
someone said eragon was better than this.
..
..
..
...after i stopped laughing, i decided to write this review. martin's books are some of the best fantasy being written today. the time it takes for them to come out should not judged as part of their quality. are they simple commercial fare? no. emphatically no. these are books for intelligent people who like to read. they deserve to be higher on the list.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







pp from the hague
one of the best fantasy series so far... however i understand why it is not on the top of the list: the series is not complete and me and probably many others will wonder whether or not the series will ever be complete. the story lines are becoming more and more complex and interwoven in every next book grr writes. but still, like a leonardo's david without the head...
10/10 (2012-03-01)







anthony from cardiff
i had to correct my review. just finished the 4 books and i am totally ashamed of my last comments. its simply that the more you read the rewards will come. i am 37 and have been listening to audio books for a year now, since i have lost my sight. talented writers like this keep blind people in the world sane. i am gutted i have to wait for the next book - mr martin please hurry up!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







eric from quebec
in my opinion, one of the best series, probably my favorite. in most series, it is easy to expect what will come next. this is one series where everyone has an opinion, and a different one (if you debate with other readers). not everyone agrees who they think will be the "main" character in the end, if any. i really love to see how, from every character's perspective, their perception of right and wrong changes. it makes you think about what we do in our lives, that we consider "right", that from another perspective would be viewed as "wrong". overall, this story makes me think, surprises me and captivates me, which are the foremost reasons i use what time i have to read =)
10/10 (2012-03-01)







william from california
first off george r. r. martin has got to be the slowest author in history. with only 4 of the 7 planned books released, don't plan on finishing this series for at least a decade.
the book itself is not bad. the prose is good and the plot is fairly intricate. however what i find the drawback of this series is the, i guess you would call it realism, or pessimism maybe. the good guys don't always win in this, in fact, they usually lose.
i am going to finish the series because it is fairly well written and i am curious about the ending. but i doubt i will ever want to reread it like i have with many other series. just my 2cents.
7/10 (2012-03-01)







dustin from washington
amazing piece of literature, the character development and the story telling is superb. i read these book and absolutely had to recommend them to everybody i knew. several of my co-workers started reading the books and they all love them as well. there is a reason for all the hype behind this series.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







tom from qc
really, grrm is not a writer, he is a god! a song of ice and fire is way better than the lord of the rings! i have almost finished the last published book so far. a song for lya is very good too, grrm is not only good for fantasy, he is a great sf writer too!ps - sorry for my bad english, i'm a french canadian. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







lester from manchester
this is amazing. the entire series is amazing. buy these amazing books!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







darren from wilkinson
this book is much better than lord of the rings. it really is that simple. lotr was overly descriptive and had far too many silly songs and dances. tyrion lannister is one of the best characters in fiction. buy the whole series - you won't be disappointed.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







chris from netherlands
this book, and all of the series, got me reading till 3.00am. martin uses point of view characters to reveal bits of his plot in such a maner that you're always hoping to find out more. i for one couldn't wait to read the next chapter of my favorite characters. beware, as the review says, bad things will happen to the characters you like most. hate it or love it, every page you turn could mean the end, it's thrilling and exciting in every way...
10/10 (2012-03-01)







steve from burton
this book, and the other books published of the series, are as absorbing and intriging as any i've read. could replace tolkien at the top of your bookshelf.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







russell from cardiff
i think you've rated this book to low, it at least deserves to be on a par with ursula le guin's books.
don't get me wrong, the earthsea books are great and among my favourites but this is quality fantasy and needs to be seen as such.
10/10 (2012-03-01)









9.2/10 from 102 reviews

all george rr martin reviews

a song of ice and fire (a song of ice and fire)
fire and blood (a song of ice and fire companion)
a game of thrones (a song of ice and fire: book 1)
a clash of kings (a song of ice and fire: book 2)
a storm of swords 1: steel and snow (a song of ice and fire: book 3)
a storm of swords 2: blood and gold (a song of ice and fire: book 3)
a feast for crows (a song of ice and fire: book 4)
a dance with dragons (a song of ice and fire: book 5)
the armageddon rag 
tuf voyaging 
a game of thrones: graphic novel volume 3 
dangerous women 
the ice dragon 
windhaven 
old venus 
rogues 
inside straight (wild cards)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the colour of magic by terry pratchett
(the discworld series: book 1)





terry pratchett's first discworld novel, the colour of magic is set on a world sitting on the backs of four elephants hurtling through space. rincewind, the wizard and twoflower, the discworld's first tourist encounter death and hrun the barbarian on their journey through the discworld.twoflower, and his menacing luggage arrive in ahnk morpork as the first ever tourist and employ the failed wizard rincewind as a guide. after twoflower's wealth causes ahnk morpork to set on fire, they embark on an adventure that will involve visits to the temple of bel-shamroth and encounters with trolls, dragons and krullians.terry pratchett takes the seriousness from the fantasy novel and replaces it with wicked humour. this is an excellent place to start for any reader yet to read a pratchett novel as it gives the background history of the main characters. the action starts in ahnk morpork, a city that becomes firmly implanted in the memory.this novel is very different from most fantasy novels and a breath of fresh air. a beautifully imagined world and wonderfully described characters, when added to the mix, make this a must read novel. this book can stop you from taking life too seriously.by now the whole of downtown morpork was alight, and the richer and worthier citizens of ankh on the far bank were bravely responding to the situation by feverishly demolishing the bridges. but already the ships in the morpork docks-laden with grain, cotton and timber, and coated with tar-were blazing merrily and, their moorings burnt to ashes, were breasting the river ankh on the ebb tide, igniting riverside palaces and bowers as they drifted like drowning fireflies toward the sea. in any case, sparks were riding the breeze and touching down far across the river in hidden gardens and remote rickyards.the colour of magicbe careful! once you have read and enjoyed one discworld novel you may find yourself making your way through the whole series.9/10 a fantastic book that stops you from taking life too seriously


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
8 positive reader review(s) for the colour of magic
47 positive reader review(s) in total for the the discworld series series







the colour of magic reader reviews

mark from england
this book was my 1st experience of discworld and it is my favourite although i havent read all of them (yet). really enjoyed the characters and the humour.
9/10 (2015-06-18)







josh from england
wow! what a book to start my obsession for terry pratchett books! i think it was hilarious, the characters were awesome, a rubbish cowardly wizard, a very optimistic tourist, a walking chest and more. how could you not like this book??
9/10 (2013-04-08)







karen from england
working my way through the series in no particular order which fits the mood... this isn't the best of the lot, but if you reach the end and haven't laughed out loud at least once you might like to try checking for a pulse. 'life-enhancing' is a sorely overused term these days, but in the case of terry pratchett's work i think it's more than justified.
9/10 (2012-07-23)







gosia from poland
if you want to read 'discworld' series, you must start with 'the colour of magic'. if you do not want to read the series, still you must read this book.
10/10 (2012-06-09)







sam from the lake district
wow!!! fantasy and wit and humour... all in one! an amazing book and i am now on a never-ending quest to try and finish the rest of the discworld series!
10/10 (2012-03-09)







mollie from pittsburgh
i suggest this book not only to existing discworld fans, but any fan of fantasy and satire. it successfully pokes fun at every aspect of the genre it can reach and does so in a way that is both intelligent and genuinely laugh out loud funny. this book actually works better as a stand-alone than as part of the discworld series, because his later novels (while still quite good) don't quite reach the same all-encompassing level of genre mockery and settle into a sort of self-contained humor within the context of existing characters and plot.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







ryan from australia
going back and reading this again after a number of years, i find that the colour of magic has not lost any of its charm. while not as good as recent discworld novels, this is where it all starts and still provides great insight into the unique mind of terry pratchett. 
7/10 (2012-03-01)







billie from leamington spa
love it. love it, loved it! my older brother used to read fantasy books and i tried a few but never got into it. i saw this in his room one day and liked the cover and found the description on the back really funny so gave it a go. it's how fantasy books should be, full of laughter (for the reader) and wonderful characters. although mort and reaper man are still my favourites the colour of magic is where it all began and a great introduction to the discworld and its strange and colourful inhabitants.
8/10 (2012-03-01)









8.8/10 from 9 reviews

all terry pratchett reviews

a blink of the screen 
the ankh-morpork archives: volume one (discworld anthology #1)
the long earth (long earth #1)
the long war (long earth #2)
the long utopia (long earth #4)
nation 
the discworld series 
good omens 
the compleat ankh-morpork city guide 
the world of poo 
dodger 
the carpet people 
the colour of magic (the discworld series: book 1)
lords and ladies (the discworld series: book 14)
feet of clay (the discworld series: book 19)
the light fantastic (the discworld series: book 2)
jingo (the discworld series: book 20)
the fifth elephant (the discworld series: book 24)
night watch (the discworld series: book 28)
mort (the discworld series: book 3)
equal rites (the discworld series: book 3)
the wee free men (the discworld series: book 30)
monstrous regiment (the discworld series: book 31)
a hat full of sky (the discworld series: book 32)
going postal (the discworld series: book 33)
wintersmith (the discworld series: book 35)
making money (the discworld series: book 36)
unseen academicals (the discworld series: book 37)
i shall wear midnight (the discworld series: book 38)
snuff (the discworld series: book 39)
sourcery (the discworld series: book 4)
raising steam (the discworld series: book 40)
the shepherds crown (the discworld series: book 41)
guards! guards! (the discworld series: book 8)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the lord of the rings by jrr tolkien






sauron, the dark lord, has gathered to him all the rings of power, the means by which he intends to rule middle-earth. all he lacks in his plans for dominion is the one ring, the ring that rules them all, which has fallen into the hands of the hobbit, bilbo baggins. in a sleepy village in the shire, young frodo baggins finds himself faced with an immense task, as his elderly cousin bilbo entrusts the ring to his care. frodo must leave his home and make a perilous journey across middle-earth to the cracks of doom, there to destroy the ring and foil the dark lord in his evil purpose.since it was first published in 1954, the lord of the rings has been a book people have treasured. steeped in unrivalled magic and otherworldliness, its sweeping fantasy has touched the hearts of young and old alike. written by professor j.r.r. tolkien and consisting of three separate books (the fellowship of the ring, the two towers and the return of the king) the lord of the rings was first published by george, allen and unwin between 1954 and 1955.and a magnificent achievement it is; an epic tale of friendship, love and heroism, a book that set the benchmark for all fantasy novels to come. tolkien's descriptive narrative beautifully depicts middle-earth and the journey that the fellowship undertakes will remain with them for the rest of their lives.it is hard to put into words the happiness that can be felt when reading a fantasy book as good as this and anybody who has never read it should set aside some time to do so. is it the best fantasy book of all time? in my opinion, yes.there's no salvation for a fantasy fan who hasn't read the gospel of the genre. the influence of the lord of the rings is so universal that everybody from george lucas to led zeppelin has appropriated it for one purpose or another. not just revolutionary because it was groundbreaking, the lord of the rings is timeless because it's the product of a truly top-shelf mind. tolkien was a distinguished linguist and oxford scholar of dead languages with strong ideas about the importance of myth and story and a deep appreciation of nature. his epic, 10 years in the making, recounts the great war of the ring and the closing of middle-earth's third age, a time when magic begins to fade from the world and men rise to dominance. tolkien carefully details this transition with tremendous skill and love, creating in the lord of the rings a universal and all-embracing tale, a justly celebrated classic.10/10 an universal and all-embracing tale, a justly celebrated classic.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
145 positive reader review(s) for the lord of the rings








the lord of the rings reader reviews

andrew from united states
lord of the rings is the ultimate fantasy book, which kicked off the whole of the fantasy genre. the journey from the peace of the shire to the dark crags of mordor is the definition of epic, and is the best example of modern day mythology. all of the characters are interesting, and the messages of hope still resonate with an audience to this day.
10/10 (2021-05-11)







jody davis from usa
love him and his son's books - greatest fantasy of all time.
10/10 (2021-01-28)







krste from croatia
even though it’s got some pacing issues, too much singing and a few 2d characters i can’t bring myself to give it anything less than a perfect 10. middle earth is the greatest fantasy world ever created, its heroes and villains are some of the most iconic characters ever put to page (or on screen) and the journey to mordor is unforgettable. if i was ranking each of the books separately i might be a little more critical, especially towards fellowship of the ring which takes a while before it gets going. however, as a single story, lord of the rings is just something special.
10/10 (2021-01-01)







andrew from usa
this book is my favorite book of all time. i remember my dad read it to me as a kid and i loved it so much that a year later he read it to me again. it introduced me to the mythic lore of a world beyond our own and the building blocks of all fantasy that followed it.
10/10 (2020-10-07)







toby from united kingdom
i am 60 now, and have fallen in and out of love with many things over the course of time, but never this book. for people who don't get fantasy, how can you explain to them that a book and its characters can be a cornerstone for your entire life. much as aragorn has been my lifelong hero, i never aspired to that level of greatness. as a boy i always contented myself with being imrahil, a taint of numenor, a bit of dash, and a willingness to turn up when things got tricky. briefly on the subject of the films, there is much i don't like about them (a doe eyed frodo for instance), but i will forever thank peter jackson for lighting the halls of moria for me and allowing me to sail downriver and get my first sight of the old kings at the falls of rauros. they were just as i imagined. plus if anyone ever does a better job of the battle for helms deep, then i will doff my cap (i don't have a helm) to them. i know some modern readers will question some of tolkien's style, his description of women (great, beautiful, or almost non existent), but you have to remember when he was writing. sourced from his feelings on the first world war and icelandic legend, the fact that this trilogy is still the greatest fantasy work of all time is truly amazing. i have to stop at some point or will write all day. i still love the warmth of the shire, crave the past glories of men and numenor, seek for the elves in every golden wood i ever visit, and cry every time that last ship leaves the grey havens. if only i could have been on it. (lovely review toby - thank you so much! lee @ fantasy book review)
10/10 (2020-09-21)







nil from india
one of the greatest trilogies of all time and certainly the measuring stick to which all subsequent fantasy-style writing is compared, the lord of the rings trilogy still stands at the top of the stack. its realism, the characters and monsters, the storyline, the epic battles, and the quest motif are all drawn with incredible care by tolkien in his chef-d'oeuvre. my favorite was the the two towers but all three are stunning. this edition, despite the awful cover art, contains all three books and the original appendices from the return of the king. the one issue i have with this one is that the map of middle earth that should open the two towers is back in the appendices and relatively hard to find. it is also a rather large book and thus unwieldy for public transport commuting.
9/10 (2020-05-17)







ritehly from philippines
this is one of the best book indeed movie of all time <3
10/10 (2020-04-28)







smithz  from usa
it is a 10. you can get lost in the lord of the rings. if you allow it to it can transform your life. it touches on many aspects of the world today and highlights internal struggles and the need for victory over those difficulties. yet it keeps you entertained and is not moralistic in anyway. there is ecstatic joy and deep and troubling waters to cross in this story of the dark lord trying to subdue middle earth without the majority of the population not even knowing there is danger. yet small and mighty forces alike must stand up to the evil in the world. there is a price to pay that each person must decide whether they will first of all be aware of the darknessof the soul. secondly, decide to oppose evil no matter what the cost. and thirdly understand that even in victory there is tremendous loss. but when fighting the good fight there neverending satisfaction and that it is well worth the struggle.
10/10 (2020-03-02)







arne from sweden
youssef from sydney, you are clearly not the right person to review this.
10/10 (2019-10-21)







layan from israel
seriously it is the best freaking book i've ever read .and i'm not the type of a person who always reads books, i like movies more, still the movie is absolutely breathtaking so as the book, and if i have to compare the movie to the book i would definitely choose the book. i highly recommended.
10/10 (2019-10-14)







martin from slovakia
definitely my favorite fantasy book ever. i've read first two books and i am excited that book can be more interesting than any video game or movie. the main thame is to destroy the ring of power and defeat sauron- evil of the middle-earth. i like that the story isn't still about one or two main things, but there are many other parts which sometimes carries theirs own tale and mystery. i found this book very interesting and certainly i'am going to read last book. i recomend this book for all lovers of fantasy.
10/10 (2019-06-09)







emerok from the earth
lotr and tolkien's writing style is not for everyone as i can see from the comments, but i don't think the ppl writing all the negative reviews really understand tolkien's works at all. lotr is very deep and i get that it takes a while for the story to get moving, but once it gets moving, it is like reading norse myths in their original prose form or beowulf. after reading one of tolkien's biographies, i found that he was inspired from the myths more than anything else and an important fact to keep in mind when reading lotr/the hobbit is that tolkien created middle earth for his languages rather than vise versa. tolkien uses language(english, not his invented ones) in very complex way that many modern writers don't grasp, and many ppl are so accustomed to the writing styles of the modern era, that they lotr way out of their comfort zone. i love tolkien's works and i would recommend it to anyone who likes mythology and history as well as anyone who is up for a bit of a deep read, but as always read the hobbit first!!!! the most similar book i have come across are the earthsea books by ursula leguin
10/10 (2019-04-21)







fawn from the underworld
best book i have ever read! i have read many fantasy books and i have a unique imagination of how i think but the creatures and lands of this book is beyond the mind of a mere mortal. j.r.r. tolkien is truly the best writer when it comes to fantasy books. never turn down this book for it will open up many paths in your mind and you will discover creatures you never thought could be thought of. i recommend this book to all ages that can read and that includes 5 or even 4 year olds. it has been greatly written and is practically the father of all fantasy books.
10/10 (2019-04-05)







john from usa
you can love it or hate it but what you cannot do is underestimate imagination of the highest form.
10/10 (2019-03-27)







caleb from united states
it took me a while, but i finished in about two months. the best parts often come out of the blue, so you need to read the whole book, and not skip anything, otherwise, you might miss some very important details and backstories. i think that there is a little bit too much description of the characters and their dialog, but i love the description of the land and the places that the characters go. i love how we meet new characters throughout the whole story. this is a great book for people about the age of 13, as it will greatly improve your grammar and ability to read. it is not very hard to read, but it is not written in the dialect that is used today.
9/10 (2019-02-27)







anon from uk
simply amazing. the book surpasses the word 'masterpiece'. the lord of the rings is a must read, no excessive swearing nor sexual content was needed to make this book my favourite.
10/10 (2019-02-01)







alistair  from england 
the greatest epic fantasy i have ever read, and will ever read. amazing.
10/10 (2019-01-28)







siddharth  from india
my friend had "the hobbit". i borrowed it. i loved it and wanted some more. i asked my mother to buy me a lord of the rings (all in one) and she did. literallly, never have i ever read such a book with a brilliant amount of grace,wit and heroism.the language is beautiful and levels higher than many books i had read! it was, at least for me, better than harry potter, percy jackson(of course) and the chronicles of narnia. the ay the quotes are wrtten for every character, there is a lot to leran in morals as well!! i would like to conclude by giving on of my favourite quotes: "arise,arise, riders of theoden fell deeds awake: fire and slaughter! spear shall be shaken and shield be broken a sword-day,a red-day,ere the sun rises! ride now,ride now,ride to gondor!!!
10/10 (2019-01-21)







me from where the me live
i felt that this book was beautiful, tolkien’s imagination is legendary.
10/10 (2018-10-30)







jim from united states
unlike some i read the lord of the rings out of order. my sister had the two towers and i had read everything else in her little library. i liked the cover (clearly a 70's cover) and picked it up with aragorn, gimli and legolas running over the grasslands of rohan in pursuit of orcs. i read it part way and was so lost i gave it up. but the local library had a copy of all three books. i took up the first book and literally read all three books in a span of 7 days. i didn't sleep. i couldn't. at the end i cried that it was over. i wanted it to go on and on. the world created by j.r.r tolkien swept me up and has never left me. i read the hobbit after the lotr - and watched that evolve from a child's bedtime story to a much deeper, much more nuanced tale. tolkien created a world of constant challenges to each characters moral and ethical souls. captivated initially by the primary storyline of frodo, aragorn and gandalf i raced through the book to learn the ending. on subsequent readings i understood the depth of each characters risks and rewards. the ring presents each prime character with a vision of power capable of giving them their hearts desire with the knowledge the ring will destroy that which they cherish most in time. some fail, some overcome. and for some to overcome the lure of the ring is ensure the ending of what they hold most dear. of all the lines in the lord of the rings the one that rings over and over to me is galadriel who when she she refuses the ring offered by frodo says: "i pass the test. i will diminish and go into the west." she knows in refusing she has doomed her beloved lothlorien but to accept she becomes the very thing she opposes. that is a terrible choice. the lord of the rings has a depth no other novel i have ever read has. i devoured the appendices at the end of the book. i find myself going back to read them periodically. i don't think it is for everybody - but those of us lucky few who fall into the lotr completely it is a world that is always with us, always a comfort and cautionary.
10/10 (2018-10-23)







eamonn from ireland
after many years of avoiding reading lord of the rings i have just started it. it is amazing. i'm not sorry i put it off because i get to do it now. tolkien really creates his world from below the ground up. i cannot recommend this book more. it's a great story and you'll learn how a story should be written.
10/10 (2018-08-30)







harry  from hogwarts
damn!! your world is so much more better than mine. wish i could also fight the great evil sauron instead of that stupid ugly 'no nose' voldemort.😌
10/10 (2018-08-26)







jokty from home
good but harry potter is better.
9/10 (2018-07-30)







christian from uk
it's hard to describe just how magical my first reading of the lord of the rings was. i was 'in the book' from the very first page & have rarely - if ever since - been so immersed. i didn't just want to read about hobbiton, i wanted to live there. it is a truly beautiful story which is imbued with a love for language and nature, a story of heroism in the face of terrifying odds. the characters: frodo, sam, aragorn, gollum & others have stayed with me for the twenty-five years since. whenever i take a walk through a particularly pleasant part of england i am reminded of this book. every fantasy fan should read this book, it really does deserve all the praise it receives.
10/10 (2018-06-30)







zubin from india
truly an excellent book but its quite lengthy and you need to have some amount of patience.
9/10 (2018-06-05)







suraj from india
the evil us full of fantasy and adventure, in accordance to me the novel is too good in language and very very interesting to read. it has lots of different character which creats interest in it. every one should read this novel.
9/10 (2018-06-05)







andy anduin from china
this book is a masterpiece. when i was about 11 or 12 years old i read the hobbit. at that time i thought is was alright, but with some good bits in it. however i felt it couldn't compare with watership down as an adventure tale (that is another great book, surprisingly brilliant). my grandmother ("on my father's side...") once said that i should read the book and put the old, incomplete cartoon into the video player. intrigued, but didn't really get what was going on (the black riders in that cartoon are terrifying - scarier than the movie versions, and cost me some sleep!). as i grew to become an older teenager i sometimes considered looking at the lord of the rings book, but was rather put off the idea due to it's imposing size and the apparent "unfathomability" of the tale in my own ignorance having not read it yet. nor had my understanding of the cartoon improved. but, somehow in someway, the tale that had not been read just niggled at me from time to time. i met some good friends at 20 years old and they said, "you've not read it yet!? you've got to read it. it's so worth it - but read it all or you won't get the benefit!" later that year i bought the one piece, bulky novel and got down to it... it has maps in it, always a good thing and gradually helped my immersion. gradually, gradually. the first part, the first time, the fellowship of the ring was kind of slow and for me, was an effort to read, i didn't know the characters, the lay of the land, the lore or anything. it had some tense and joyous moments. it was basically a deeper version of the world found in the hobbit. but the english and sentence composition was exquisite in many parts. didn't dig the singing though, for i knew not the tunes or hints! then after the new band left rivendell... suddenly the book changes tracks! whoa! it became a massive page turner, though the times i paused reading and was lost in my imagination about what was happening, where and to whom gradually increased in length and frequency. and this is what makes it great. you get lost in this world in your own imagination before returning to read the next paragraph... suddenly the book ends. what an epic and what a fabulously cool ending! such a good ending, one not really used in the movies i saw 8 years later. the scouring of the shire. awesome lol. the book ended far too soon. you spend all this time lost in this world and suddenly, it's gone. over. the end, oh no! ridiculously, i started reading it again about 6 weeks later. oh my goodness, it's even better the second time because you know what is going on and where. the second reading made it even deeper and the little imagination trips went into overdrive! i have read lord of the rings five or six times and now i have started reading it again for the first time since seeing the movies 15 plus years ago. wow. tolkien's english is just so exquisite and now it's a joy to read every sentence. the hobbits have just been dropped of by farmer maggot at the brandywine ferry... 8od when i read reviews of people complaining about the book, i can see from my own experience that almost all of them didn't get through the fellowship of the ring! lol. for those who haven't read it yet, heed my old friend's advice, read it all. it becomes a page turner after the first part. seriously. this book is awesome. the movies are great (i love them), but they are just like the images you see in the corners of the pages of old children's books. wonderfully complimentary, but not actually it itself. read it.
10/10 (2018-02-25)







jyoti from india
can't believe people say it is not good. i read it when i was 13. i have read pretty more books but this one is the best. improved my language a lot. better than harry potter.
10/10 (2018-01-22)







harshit from chennai 
it is a very fantastic, magical and outstanding book. no one would ever leave this book if they will read once.
10/10 (2018-01-07)







bilbo from middle-earth
absolutely incredible.
10/10 (2018-01-02)







phillip from france
i first read the hobbit when i was 15 and quickly followed up with the trilogy. ever since 1980, i must have read the trilogy 5 times, the silmarillion and the hobbit 4 times. it's the book that got me hooked the most. in modern fantasy, i could say only robin hobb comes close to tolkien. the lord of the ring has everything to offer. the trouble is, the movies attracted a very diverse audience that may not have much time for literature. for it is not fantasy as such, but literature. so, basically, if you don't enjoy reading, stop after the hobbit book. the lotr is a saga, with more characters than in the movie, and some characters are far deeper than in the peter jackson movies, gimli comes instantly to mind, a deep character in the book, a buffoon in the movie. don't mistake me, i've enjoyed the movies a lot and own the long versions dvds. peter jackson did a good job overall, but honestly couldn't match the magic of the books.
10/10 (2017-12-12)







larkolas from the grey havens
@shawna from the u.s. if you dare think that harry potter is better than lotr, you are mistaken! j.k. rowling stole much of her plot from j.r.r. tolkien, and his characters, so she is a complete fraud! your insensitivity to original and great writing is just shocking to me, that someone can be so ignorant of actual literature. did j.k. rowling invent multiple languages for her different characters? no! did j.k. rowling create her own setting? no! did j.k. rowling keep her language clean in the story? no! harry potter is for children who can't understand great literature, and who find lotr too high of a reading level for them.
10/10 (2017-10-13)







éowyn from new zealand
i love this book so much! the descriptive language is amazing, leaving me breathless with each chapter. my parents loved the series so much, they decided to name my brother and i after éowyn and éomer, our middle names arwen and legolas. i remember when i reached the end of the book, i truly had felt part of my heart had shriveled and wilted like a flowers petal. i have considered fantasy as one of my dearest passions and when this particular trilogy ended, i felt there was absolutely nothing reality could offer me that could ever stimulate the emotions i had felt in a world that is so deep in imagination. i had come to understand that it is from reality that this beautiful story was birthed and that what was seen and read can be expressed in our daily lives that we may become a united world and stand in the face of all evil as one, i might be a fool to think there is hope for our world, but i do. in times when i feel darkness around me i chant the oath of elendil and breathe.
10/10 (2017-10-13)







duncan from england
having read a few of the reviews here, i would make a few observations. - the lord of the rings, is not fast paced action adventure fantasy, if you do not have patience, you will not enjoy it. it's like a fine wine, savour it, do not try to devour it quickly. - lotr, is the very first epic scale fantasy. every single other epic fantasy, every epic sci-fi, and half the art and music of the last 60 years has been influenced, or inspired by lotr. it's is genesis and should be considered that way. - tolkien, didn't just write a book, he spent most of his life creating an entire world, it's history, its mythology, its geography, it's languages etc. the scale of what he created is truly staggering and vastly more in depth than anyone before or since has ever attempted, remember this is the lifes work of 1 man... - if you are one of those who demand instant gratification, move on, you simply won't get it, or have the patience to enjoy one of the greatest masterpieces ever written. to the review, i first read lotr, age 11, having been bitten by the middle earth bug with the hobbit at about age 9. it took a lot of effort for an 11 year old to read, i got bored in places, but stuck with it because i had to know what was going to happen. by the time i had gotten to the end i had fallen in love. i still didn't understand much of what tolkien was trying to tell me, but as i got older and wiser, i came to truly understand what he had written and that even the "boring bits" are well worth reading, simply because of the wisdom he is trying to impart. as quick fix epic fantasy, there are better books out there, but for those with the patience and understanding it remains the greatest fantasy book ever written. that's before we consider that all those that have come since lotr owe their existence to tolkien and this masterpiece. my personal tolkien favourite though has got to be the silmarillion and i for one am very glad that peter jackson will never get his hands on that beloved book.
10/10 (2017-07-17)







joshua from south africa
when i first read this book i was 11 years old. this book is amazing. it paints an amazing picture and you feel like your right there and you are watching it all happen. when i read it as a prepared reading my teacher was very impressed. i if you don't like reading long books it might not be the best for you. some parts are a bit sad but other wise it is a great book that i would read again.
10/10 (2017-05-02)







grace from australia
tolkien has created something so unique, so intelligent, that even all these years later it is the paragon of high fantasy. i first read it one year ago when i was 18, and it still echoes in my mind. i can hardly bear to pick up the book again, because i want to remember the rapture and awe i felt when i first read it. the style is eloquent, yet simple. it is heavy, yet innocent. the humor is uplifting, the darkness intense, the characters endearing. i have never seen such a strong example friendship in any novel as there is in lord of the rings. the book is second to none, unrivaled, unprecedented. if your attention span is short, don't read it. but if you care for complex and intelligent worlds, you will not be disappointed. as someone who watched the movies first, i must mention the fabulous job peter jackson did. not everything was exactly by the book, but the spirit of the book was preserved, and that is what you want for a move. you don't want a carbon copy of the book, because then the movies are boring and predictable, and there is no fun in going back to read the book as i did. books and movies are two very different ways of telling a story, and cannot be the same. books are ideas strung into sentences and paragraphs that lead the reader into an imaginary narrative. they are entirely based on words, and most make the most of simple letters. movies, in contrast, deal with visuals and sounds. the characters assume faces, places become structures. it is an entirely different realm of story telling. what is important, then, is that the author's intentions be honored and the spirit be preserved. ideally, a movie should endear you to the characters and create visual images that can be used when reading the book, and the book should reveal and expand on the characters you are already in love with. i like the fact that jackson took exact quotes from some characters, and gave them to others. i like that some things were mixed about. when i read the book, the differences were exciting changes, and i was eager to know more. in conclusion, tolkien is the master, and jackson constructed excellent portrayal of his masterpiece.
10/10 (2017-04-27)







dernhelm from uk
this isn't really like other books, even its imitators, though the best of them are similarly long, variable in pace and diverse in language and location. the early part of the story was meant to be a follow-up to the hobbit, until it switches tracks and increasingly becomes the war story that it actually is. those who have read war memoirs by anyone who actually lived through a war will know the difference between a war story and an action novel. there has been some discussion about whether, since this can be "read by teenagers", lotr is really a "ya" novel. i read arabian sands at age of 10, so that is a ya story? go figure. ya is a marketing term, and didn't exist in tolkien's day. people just wrote stories. however i think anon of uk below has it right. it's best read when you still have hopes and dreams. as you get older, it may fade more and more into the land of hopes and dreams - but it is you that are changing. some of the cold bitter side of life can be glimpsed under the surface at times, (if you want more of that, go to the silmarillion.) i have a feeling that when you get really old, you may begin to see its relevance again. in these increasingly difficult times, not a week goes by but i remember the words of galadriel to sam at the end of the mirror of galadriel. tolkien had after all lived through the time of hitler. if you want to read it but (like my granny) can't stand little men with furry feet, try reading it backwards from, say, many partings. chapter by chapter, i mean, not word for word. that doesn't work. you don't have to read it. the wizard of earthsea is also a very fine book, and a lot shorter.
10/10 (2017-03-24)







michael from us
awesome.
10/10 (2017-03-03)







nitya from india
the trilogy is worth reading once. for readers who like fast paced action , this is not a series i would recommend. it progresses quite slowly and the descriptions are lengthy - not really my type. but if you have the patience, the plot is worth it.
7/10 (2016-12-28)







anon from uk
i read the lord of the rings when i was sixteen, way back in 1969. and, no, i was not a hippie stoner, as some hostile reviewers here think that lovers of this book must be. in fact, i never touched drugs. i loved the lord of the rings than and have read if a few time since. i just picked it up for the first time in twenty years and finished the fellowship of the ring. it's lost a little something over the years. but then again, i suspect that i'm the one who's lost a little something. in one sense, that has even made the book greater - i can see the greatness of the book by what i now lack to fully appreciate it: youthful ideals and hopes and dreams. to all those dreamers, read on.
10/10 (2016-10-23)







ela from dir
not a review, just read the review and wanted to point out that the first sentence is wrong. sauron hadn't gathered all the rings of power as the three elven rings were owned by gandalf, elrond and galadriel.
10/10 (2016-09-27)







allaboutbooks from usa
lord of the rings has been a lifelong favorite. i highly suggest it for anyone who wants an epic fantasy, fun read or simply beautiful tale. also, as i suggested in another review some must fall, book 1 of the coming crown, is a must read. if you like lotr you have to read this!
10/10 (2016-09-04)







anonymous  from somewhere
i first watched the films to these novels and vaguely liked them. when i was older they were read to me as a bedtime story and i fell in love with the beauty of the language used. i thoroughly enjoyed connecting it to real mythology and history, seeing peoples and cultures that not just anyone could of thought of. j.r.r tolkien said that the languages were not derived from the stories, but rather the stories from the languages. i found that the characters were very real and i disagree with previous accusations of the being wooden. this novel was one of the pioneers of modern fantasy. i understand that many may of found it tedious and slow, among other things. it is not a novel for someone who prefers fast-paced action. i can empathise with those who found language difficult, as i am not yet thirteen and did not understand word such as 'pertness' and 'trothplighted' initially, untill they were explained (i think trothplighted is an excellent word) but still enjoyed the richness of it. personally i think the need for fast paced action is a result of everything being fast paced in modern life. the silmarillion was a particullary difficult read and i mean to read it again when i am older. one has to remember tolkien described his work as history-making than fantasy. for those who do not like it bit and haven't finished, keep going, it's worth it! for those who have read it but do not like it, not every book is to everyone's taste, and people who say that the people who don't like it are stupid are wrong as not everything is to everyone's taste and everyone has their own.
10/10 (2016-01-02)







dane campbell from uk
the lord of the rings is a beautiful novel which should appeal to readers of all types. it is worth of the 'timeless classic' tag and should be read by any who enjoy the fantasy genre. it's influence cannot be understated and authors like eddings, brooks and jordan all clearly displayed their admiration in their most famous works. the lord of the rings is one of those books in which you can fully immerse yourself and it features some of the most memorable locations in any fantasy world (hobbiton, the old forest, rivendell, lothlorien, minas tirith and mordor to name those that first came to mind). i read that people do not just want to read about middle-earth - they want to live there. and i am one of them. a truly wonderful and inspiring fantasy book. 10 out of 10.
10/10 (2016-01-02)







paul from usa
the lotr is the greatest novel i've ever read and i continue to read books in the hope that something, anything will approach it greatness. it is a quest in which a seemingly mismatched group of heroes are brought together by the behind the scenes machinations of the wizard, gandalf, who has been sent to middle earth to unite all free people of good will in opposition to the dark lord, sauron, the title character. sauron created a ring that holds most of his power but it was taken from millennia ago by the last alliance of elves and men. the ring was lost, and then found by a creature named smeagol (gollum) who, in turn lost it to an unassuming hobbit by the name of bilbo baggins. the lotr tells the story of how the ring was destroyed. the beauty of the lotr is in its language. tolkien's prose sings to the ears in the same manner as spoken (but not written) shakespeare. tolkien's genius lies in the fact that he created his mythical world, created languages, created a history and then wrote the story. his love for his mythical world emanates from every word.
10/10 (2015-09-08)







manwe from valinor
anybody who downrated this series because they thought it was boring is not reviewing this right. never review a book before you finish it. if you finished it and still think it is boring... well, too bad. lord of the rings is not a high-paced thriller filled with action, it is a slow but amazing epic. if you give me a real explanation of downvoting it other than "it's too boring!!!!!" i will listen to you. anyways i have a book to review. professor tolkien did the unthinkable in a book: he managed to make an amazing story against an even more amazing world. nowhere else have i seen such an amazing world with a constant realized background, while also having memorable characters, while also including a plot with such epic scale. from the peaceful village of hobbiton, to the cracks of doom, you feel like this place must really exist. gandalf is one of the greatest wizards in fantasy, the hobbits are all interesting, and gollum/smeagol is an amazingly 3-dimensional character. although in the great scheme of things, the war of the ring is not too much (like 2 pages in the silmarillion) it still is a great epic quest, especially for creatures as small as hobbits. the main flaws i can find in this story are lack of female characters (galadriel is still great though) and some characters seem to be always good, while others always bad. i guess that's just fantasy though. if you say harry potter is better, i can kind of see where you're coming from. the characters in hp are better in many ways. however if you say that percy jackson or eragon is better... well that just makes me angry. anyways the lord of the valar thinks this is the greatest book ever made. manwe out.
10/10 (2015-09-02)







andrew from new zealand
amazing book. those who have just started and find it tedious should be persistent and keep on reading. the first book may be boring but later on (especially in the third book) things get exciting. a must read book.
10/10 (2015-07-28)







yash from india
it was an excellent book.
10/10 (2015-07-04)







haroon from afghanistan
a very excellent book, i have ever read.
8/10 (2015-05-22)







eowyn from america 
this book is truly a piece of art if you have the patience. the first one is long and you will want to give up but the second and third are truly amazing. i am 12 but i have a really high reading score, yet it still took me 3 months to read… it was worth it. but if you are an average or below reader then high school levels, i would not attempt this book quite yet.
10/10 (2015-04-10)







legolas from middle earth
the lord of the rings is one of the greatest fantasies of all time. taking the time of it being written this book was revolutionary. those who argue the book is boring and overly descriptive need to read it again knowing that this book isn't supposed to be an amazing action packed thriller where someone dies every few seconds. this book was written like a history book it explains the journey and explains middle earth in such great detail you find yourself immersed in the story. this book although, is somewhat surpassed in that the structure and grammar of the book is not up to modern standard but still the immersiveness of the book makes up for for the small matter. this is the classic fantasy that will continue to be popular for years to come.
9/10 (2015-03-27)







sauron from the deepest depths of mordor
it's an amazing book but it's wrong. the forces of evil shall prevail.
10/10 (2015-03-08)







gandalf the white from middle earth (i have no home, i'm the white pilgrim)
this my favorite book i've ever read! this is a book written by j.r.r. tolkien, who not only erects a world of his own, but also makes you enjoy reading about it. then, you see reviews where people complain "oh it's too boring" or "this book is long winded" and you can only tell them how wrong they are. these people have the mindset they're going to power through it like a story, yet tolkien wrote it not only as a story but as a history. i find his writing to be very interesting, and i do understand others have their opinions as well. in the end i give it 10 out of 10 stars because the stories are perfect and fun too read.
10/10 (2015-03-05)







nathan from australia
absolutely amazing book. is the absolute pinnacle of high fantasy and is truly timeless.
10/10 (2015-02-04)







manw� from valinor
best trilogy i've ever read in my entire life.
10/10 (2015-01-27)







linan from netherlands
i think the idea is brilliant! middle earth with elves and dwarves, i love everything about it. the only thing is, the book is very slow and it's written with a lot of details. a lot of details can be a good thing, but it makes the book very tedious. i can't get through the books because of that.
7/10 (2015-01-16)







himika from india
tolkien's work is definitely an epic! i never felt bored while reading lotr, except for some parts of the two towers, rather, inheritance cycle was more boring. someone here said that the one ring was not much of a threat. appaprently, that person has not read the book properly as it was clearly given that the ring, in the hands of sauron, could control all the other rings and he would gain incredible power. if that is not a threat, i do not know what is. the lack of strong female characters did disappoint me, but that is not to say that prof. tolkien was sexist, it was just the impact of the time in which he lived. the book really transports its readers into an ethereal place. i found myself in middle earth while reading the book. and sam is definitely one of the best characters, followed by aragorn. those who describe sam and frodo as being gay don't deserve to read such a masterpiece. i would advise readers to read harry potter first, then the hobbit, and then enter into the lotr universe. some stories live on in us forever, whether we are old or young, and lord of the rings is definitely such a story. a story so well crafted that the reader's mind lingers around in the beautiful shire, the dark forest or the white city of gondor long after the book is over.(excellent review himika, i would like to second everything you wrote - lee @ fantasy book review)
10/10 (2014-12-14)







rachel  from usa 
it has a really good plot. i'm on the second lotr book, but a lot of the parts are boring. i get confused and lose interest, making me lose track where they are and all of that. it disappoints me that in the second book frodo, sam, and gollum part doesn't come until the end. i love gollum.
7/10 (2014-11-15)







marion from usa
i discovered the lord of the rings when i was a sophomore in college. i was hooked from the start, and i did a bare minimum of school work for two weeks while reading and re-reading the trilogy. i find it interesting that so many people on this forum have such strong feelings whether they loved it or hated it. i loved it, and have read it several times over 40 years. i loved it all even the supposedly boring chapters like the river voyage and the visit with tom bombadil. i found these two chapters and other sections restful but fascinating interludes among considerable action in other chapters which are filled to the brim with interesting happenings. after first reading of bombadil i was sure he was going to return in some important role, but he remained a fascinating mystery. i skimmed over most of the poetry and songs on the first reading but that material introduced depth and mystery to the story that i appreciated more after reading the silmarillion. i have found some acclaimed action-filled thriller novels overly frenetic to the point i lose interest, and i have to flip back and forth to keep the complex plot straight with all of the non-stop action. the descriptive material and varying pace in lotr helps to draw me into the fantasy world and connect with the characters and their actions.
10/10 (2014-10-18)







bobsaget from atlantis
one of the best- and longest- book series i have ever read. it is long and very highly detailed-which annoys some- but i personally love the detail, the songs, and just about everything else... not only is it great to read, it also took the fantasy genre out of grimm's fairy tales... it is a must read- if you have the time...
10/10 (2014-09-06)







james baker from wiltshire
i have read this book so many times it has fallen apart. one of the many reasons i love it is because each time i revisit it i find things that i have previously overlooked. it is a book that has everything and i urge those who have enjoyed the film adaptations to also read the book as there is so much more detail which makes the great story even more special. reading the lord of the rings is an annual treat that never fails to deliver.
10/10 (2014-06-12)







andrew luck from usa
started the book and it is great.
10/10 (2013-12-06)







guy from israel
tolkien spent many decades creating the world of middle-earth. with that in mind, there is no richer universe than the mythological world of tolkien. the plains of rohan, the many factions of gondor, ents, imladris, caras galadhon. the beatiful tale of beren and luthien, and the poem of nimrodel. a well-written masterpiece, certainly earning it's status as one of the greatest classics of our time.
10/10 (2013-08-14)







chris from scotland
@shawna from us - sure, eragon is good. sure, harry potter may be good to some people. but honestly, they can't match the sheer brilliance of tolkien. apparently, there's too much description and not enough conflict. so, did it ever once occur to you that having that much description was the idea? i find it makes it that much easier to sort of meld yourself into the book. and if there's not enough conflict for you, you probably didn't read very far into the book. the entire thing is riveting, from the flight to rivendell to the lady galadriel of lothlorien. tokien does an amazing job of immersing readers into a fantasy world with an immense amount of backstory and mythos as an undercurrent to the entire story. the characters are the best developed of any book i've ever read. and to be frank, harry potter just doesn't do it for me. the writing is overly simplistic, and honestly, all the heroes (minus ron, who actually interested me) are complete "mary sue/gary stu"s with no real, played-upon flaws.
10/10 (2013-06-23)







colt from us
@shawna from us. nice of you not to realize that potter and eragon would not exist without tolkien's work. not to mention star wars, led zeppelin. why read the ripoff when right here, right now, you can read the genuine thing?
10/10 (2013-06-21)







gandalf from somewhere
this book is fantastic, a must read!
10/10 (2013-06-05)







jeff from america
beyond amazing!
10/10 (2013-06-02)







jeff from utah
i first read this series at age 10. i periodically re-read it (about every other year for the last 34 years) because it's the best fantasy series i've come across, and believe me i've read quite a few others in that time period. the books are much better than the movies and i thought the movies were quite well done. i understand not everyone does or will enjoy these books, to each their own i say. you will not find a video game on paper, you will not satisfy your add craving, you might even have to put some time and thought into what you are reading, these are not children's books or the latest television fad. here you will find a marvellously detailed history of an imagined world, and every day characters thrust into unthinkable situations where they respond in ways real people might. like i said, these books are not for everyone, but based on their continuing popularity and longevity, they appeal to most readers and i strongly recommend them. (i just want to add that i agree 100% with jeff's review, it echoes my own thoughts perfectly - lee, fantasy book review)
10/10 (2013-05-23)







harihara from india
one of the best books i have ever read... i felt that the hobbit was still better than lotr but it was a short one. sadly not many books were written about middle warth. if you are a fan of harry potter you are bound to love this too, the characters are all comparable in both the epics. whatever i say doesn't matter as you should read it and enjoy it. :)
10/10 (2013-04-30)







luke from durham, north england
the first thing to remember about lord of the rings, (and the fact that so many people who gave it bad reviews seem to forget), is that it is not strictly speaking a fantasy novel. tolkien himself said on several occasions that he did not write fantasy, he wrote history! the fact that the history happened to be for a world that did not exist, told in a language which was tolkien's own invention, in a world where myths existed in that language did not matter. for those who complain that the book is boring or overly descriptive, i'd ask them to imagine reading a novel about the crusades. how many chapters about nobles leaving their homes, about journeying months across the seas and through europe, about tramping through hot and dry deserts would there be before a battle? that is what you are dealing with in lotr, a book which not only is set in its own world and history where everything from the poetry and songs that people sing to the places and roads people walk has its own place and biography, but also a world that is realistically large. walking from the shire to mordor takes a long time, and it is much of tolkien's genius that he is able to show how realistic the experience of this walk is. i have often heard middle earth itself called the greatest and most memorable character in tolkien's writing, and while i wouldn't quite go that far, it is certainly true that here the world plays more of a part than most, whether the italic woods of the shire or the harsh, arid landscape of mordor. the profound reality of the book is also shown by its lack of angst, because essentially bilbo and frodo were country gentlemen with little care or reason to worry before the start of the book, since after all some people just do not have that much trouble and do live normal lives (something which many novelists forget)., of course, this changes on the journey to mount doom, and frodo's relationship with sam which one insensitive reviewer calls "gay" is one of the most realistic and beautiful friendships i've read of in any novel. the same goes for magic, it is the very lack of hurling fireballs or easy pyrotechnics that illustrates the profound power of gandalf, galadriel and saruman through their shear presence and force of will. ultimately, if a person wants a quick fix fantasy novel where manly heroes chop off the heads of trolls by the dozen and wizards throw fireballs, in other words a book that is about as realistic as little pixie jim's visit to twinkly winkly town, well this is not the book for them, indeed they probably need to grow up and learn a bit more about life. for those however who love language, setting and world, and actually want to care about the characters who are going into danger and the world that needs saving, tolkien provides it all. speaking of characters, a particular note must be given to the character of sam. it is extremely rare that any author can write a character who is unashamedly not the brightest person, but at the same time has traits which make them admirable and indeed remarkable. the moment in which sam believes frodo dead and sits to consider what to do next is likely one of my favourites in the story and reduces me to tears on frequent occasions. gollum is also worthy of note, since despite the somewhat simplified version in the film, he is a deeply complex character with more than usually his share of conflicts and once again, the scene in which he looks at frodo and sam sleeping together and feels pity for them is a favourite. of course, the books are not entirely perfect. in the almost but not quite total lack of female characters they are a distinct child of their time, since back in the 1950's the idea of girls embarking upon a dangerous expedition such as frodo's' would be unthinkable. also, as tolkien himself observed, the book is in many places too short and particularly towards the end certain sets of action are compressed, such as aragorn's journey to the battle of pelennor fields or merry's ride with the rohirim, indeed while he wrote an exquisitely personal story from the perspectives of the four hobbits, when dealing with aragorn, legolas and the other characters tolkien did not seem to spend quite as much time or care, indeed i distinctly prefer the portrayal of aragorn as strider the shifty but friendly ranger (and not in the dungeons and dragons sense), to aragorn the somewhat archetypal king. i could go on talking about the fine points of lotr for pages, but better than read me waffling, go and read lord of the rings! if you approach the book with an open mind and don't just expect a quick fix standard dungeons and dragons fantasy, you won't be disappointed. i'm sorry that the site rating scale only goes up to ten, since if i were to characterize the quality, style and shear majesty of tolkien's work i'd be giving it at least a thirty! it is a book i have read innumerable times, right from the age of six onwards, and will doubtless read many times in the future, each time gaining more insight into this profound peace of literature. just as it has been said all western philosophy are footnotes to plato, it could equally be said that all fantasy are footnotes to tolkien, and it's very easy to see why. whatever else can be said for peter jackson's films, the fact that they have introduced tolkien's work to a whole new generation including many people who have not read it before has got to be a plus. so if you've not read lord of the rings read it! read it now!
10/10 (2012-12-26)







nikunj from india
adventurous and fantastic book!!! the whole world should read this book!!!
10/10 (2012-12-17)







jack from new york
lord of the rings is an exquisite series. filled with thrilling action and violence. this book is one of my most favorite books in the world. whoever are haters of the book should get out off this website, this book is the most greatest books in the world. come on, who doesn't want to read this. action, adventure, violence, and more. if you never ever read this series, i must say get out of here, go to barnes and nobles or any other websites, order or buy this book from the start because i promise you, this book will be on your shelve and on your list for top 10 books. this series is just amazing and brilliant, couldn't find a better way to explain this.
10/10 (2012-12-07)







javaid bhatt from india
once in a while comes a book which changes the way you think about fantasy and narrative writings, this book is more than that, somewhere within it there was a sense of religious aspect present in it, without even saying so... i think professor had gone through some serious religious scriptures which made him write " a right v/s wrong story"... with the conceptual likes of, all seeing one-eye, one supreme king of kings, angels (elves) and demons etc. overall i think somehow these events will occur in future, but i can be wrong also... but indeed the book, it is great treat to read. 
10/10 (2012-11-29)







nate from chicago
hey, so, i wasn't going to write a review at all, but i feel i must comment on jordan m. rapp's comment. but first, this is a great book, but since it's old, it's understandable that today's youth may not understand and enjoy these books. i, myself, am 15, but i thoroughly enjoy tolkien's work. but, uh, jordan, no one asked you what your iq is. there's no need to go calling people morons just because they don't like the same book as you. don't be such a dick, seriously.
10/10 (2012-11-19)







juan from oregon
the reason, in my opinion, that this book has and deserves the accolades that it has received is that it doesn't necessarily rely on character development, or on some glorified idea of progress, or even the motif of salvation, but that it creates a world that we begin to feel deeply about, that we can love. tolkien's world is one that should be saved. not merely the people or characters in it, nor the ideals that they may uphold, but everything, from the mill ponds to the mountains, from forests to streams. it has a wholeness that stands in stark contrast from the modern tendency to divide, to isolate, to reduce. instead, it demonstrates the interconnections, the lack of easy answers, the reality that is a world that is broken but still beautiful, that now and again shows a glimpse of its former glory. we begin to understand that the joy and the grief that frodo experiences after the ring is destroyed is shared by the elves, the ents, the trees, and the very land itself. joy at the destruction of the evil, at the ending of despair, but grief at the cost, at the fact that nothing will be the same as it was before. the lord of the rings, like few books beside it will make the reader care, if he will let it. (i also recommend les miserables and the first two books in orson scott card's ender series, ender's game and speaker for the dead)
(this is a brilliant review and i second every point it makes. thanks juan - lee, fantasy book review)
10/10 (2012-10-24)







logan from australia
excellent book, loved every word of it, never boring, wish it was longer. awsome films as well. epic!
10/10 (2012-10-18)







dreamy from albania
simply great.
10/10 (2012-10-16)







siya from south africa
first of all, the biggest mistake you can ever make is watching the movies first and then reading the books. that just causes you to have expectations about the book. i've also come to the conclusion that tolkien told the story in the form of a historical account, as if middle earth really exists and this tale is just part of its history. this method really gives the story a strong sense of realism that's why it is so descriptive and slow as if tolkien was right there next to the hobbits. i think the best example would be to imagine any real story of war written in a history book, you'd find the similarities in tolkien's storytelling. so you realise this is not meant to be read as an exciting rollercoaster ride but as simply an account of how saruman was defeated by the people of middle earth & the journey of frodo & sam. i hope i'm making sense. this storytelling method for me is beautifully authentic and goes perfectly well with this trilogy. tolkien doesn't just tell a story, he also immerses the reader in the cultures of his world. the best high fantasy novel ever written only because unlike other novels it feels real!
10/10 (2012-10-14)







pete from england
awsome.com
10/10 (2012-10-07)







wugibooboo from england
anybody who doesn't like this book should be considered insane. i know it seems harsh but it's true. they are either too stupid to understand it, too lazy to read it or simply have a terrible imaganation and no taste. tolkien was a god (and i don't care that it's blasphamy to say that it's true) and this is his greatest book. personally i would say the two towers is the best. don't know why i just prefer it. however, the other two are still amazing. plus peter jackson did a great job on it and howard shore is a musical genius. i just hope the hobbit film doesn't let the side down.
10/10 (2012-10-01)







david from romania
well, i think most everyone in the world will agree with me when i say this book is a true masterpiece. anyone who says otherwise hasn't really read it. pay attention to the skill put into each sentence and the beauty of each paragraph in the lord of the rings. every sentence is a work of art. each character's depth is astounding. the dialogue is poetry. j.r.r. tolkein will be remembered for centuries as one of the greatest writers in human history.
10/10 (2012-09-03)







harry from great britain
it may be hard to understand, boring and gets a little to deep into the histories of its own fictional world sometimes; but that's what is so great about it. it's not all about the grand adventure aiming to destroy the 'one ring', toppling over raid parties with a small group of vagabonds or armies battling each other for the defense of the last bastion for all free men. it goes over extensively on details that are present in their journey through middle earth, it throws readers into a world that was otherwise forgotten - midgard from the norse mythology - and creates new legends on its own. it is great that it challenges the readers to exercise the power of their imagination, memory retention, patience (otherwise i would've just watched the movie and be done with it) and be enthralled by the rich and enchanting lore created by the great j.r.r. tolkien.
10/10 (2012-08-31)







ben from usa
i disagree with the score rating, 10/10 is too low for this book. if you don't like this book, quit reading all together.
10/10 (2012-08-30)







abhiram from india
this is the best movie or the book i have ever seen. i enjoyed while watching this movie, it is 100% good book to read.
10/10 (2012-08-17)







joshua from united kingdom
my review. by joshua, aged 13 from bournemouth. the lord of the rings is one of the most complex books i truly have ever read. j.r.r. tolkien spent his life in his books, creating his own language! maps, histories, yes, this book is boring at times but if it wasn't we would not ever be able to understand it. j.r.r. tolkien's work, the lord of the rings is easily the best ever book written! i have read it and will read it over and over until i fully grasp the beautiful litrature between my finger tips. people who gave this book less than a outstanding 9-10 don't understand it and obviously want to always be entertained with fighting but what they don't understand is that the traveling is the foundation on all of tolkiens best work. simpily outstanding!
10/10 (2012-07-30)







anon from uk
i have yet to read anything in high fantasy that comes close to it. tolkien's schorlarliness and deep knowledge of norse sagas, was a great foundation for world-building. the symbolism of innocence overcoming evil is ever relevant.
10/10 (2012-07-25)







willem from belgium
best book ever written, no doubt! warning: certain intellectual level needed.
10/10 (2012-07-23)







nathan from pamilan
this is undoubtedly an excellent book, but gets too slow and boring at times. the walk through the forests in the first part is definitely a bad inclusion. surely the pace picks up later and the third book of this series is a sheer roller coaster. that's ultra cool.
8/10 (2012-07-03)







john from uk
this is a great book, and the one i would take to my "desert island", but not a flawless book. there is actually not enough about the title character and the conflict with him and altogether too much about saruman who trails on after the climax into the scouring of the shire. it was right to leave that part out in the films along with tom bombadil, whose character is completely anomalous, both in terms of the plot and his position in the fantasy world. i would agree too with those who say that character development after the fellowship of the ring is poor and also those who complain that female parts are very poorly developed, with the possible exception of eowyn, but that's only so she can finish off the witch-king. but it's not to say that it isn't a good read and one that grabbed my imagination all my life.

8/10 (2012-06-04)







sick from upstate ny from oneonta
yes, excellent book. movies were 6 at most w/ plot diversions. started w/ watership down @ 14, did lotr @
14-15 next. haven't stopped since. ran into "thomas covenant" @ 16, "randland" @ 30. why has only 1 person mentioned "the silmarillion," not mentioning "lost tales" at all? after that crrt got desparate and series quickly went down. you should consider a series aspect of this. if not for chris t. pandering the notes, would give 12. thanx ttfn.
9/10 (2012-05-21)







mary from fort worth
when i was little, my father would read me this book as a bedtime story. he would never be able to make voices or inflect emotion into his words (in all honesty, he was a horrible reader) but he had no need. tolkien had used every word to it's greatest. he crafted worlds so vivid i would fall alseep to the shadows of mirkwood or the music of the brandywine.
10/10 (2012-05-09)







katie  from london
i loved the film and went straight to the book when i got home and i loved them because they are brilliant and moving - tolkien is my hero!!! :-)
10/10 (2012-05-09)







nobody from nowhere
from a literary point of view, tolkien is a brilliant writer, but so are many other people. the detail in his story is overwhelmingly accute, but this often drives away modern day readers who like to imagine on their own. the lord of the rings has very little or no contemporary aspects, aside from the hobbits (his painting of country folk in england), the modern day english that just so happens to be spoken by many diverse peoples in middle earth, and other small samplings that arise from the influence twentieth-century english culture had on tolkien (it is highly improbable that any writer could hide or destroy every trace of the influence his culture had on them). the main problem many modern day writers have is that they devote the majority of their energy toward writing, that, in many cases, is aimed at pleasing the crowds. of course, in the short run, it is a very profitable tactic, selling millions of copies in a few years, and after that, on to the next book. not many individuals notice how quickly sales of contemporary writing fall when the culture has moved on. others, having seen swiftness with which the present blots out the past, like another fall of the eagles (a documentary of the collapse of the three great empires of eastern europe soon after the dawn of the twentieth century, germany, austria-hungary, and russia) turn their attention to writing books with barriers to prevent its unseemly demise. a highly sophisticated scholar who devoted his life to the study and writing of literature might vey well write a novel that has every literary tool honed to perfection, every timeless twist readers with nigh on mechanical efficiency, and characters who will catch the readers attention time after time. however, a crucial aspect that almost all writers seem to forget is that literature, while considered by many to be an independent subject, turns out to be merely a branch off the study of languages, or philology. tolkien, by both profession (he, correct me if i am wrong, taught it at oxford) and nature (he made languages at age ten), was a philologist. too many people before and after him attempt to start a novel simply based on literary sources and personal experience. this is the wrong approach. one must start at the root of all the social studies: philology. the linguistic apects of the book are essential for its survival and the continual enjoyment of its readers. for example, each of tolkien's names (whether person, place, or thing) are not simply created on whim. he discovered each of their names linguistically, that is, he translated them from other languages. the one great flaw and the one great beauty of translation is that some words can not be fully translated into words, but an impression, an emotion that arises from the sound of the word and the broad terms with which translators attempt to capture that impression. without philology, tolkien would have almost certainly not have written any of his majestic works. without language, human civilization would not exist!
10/10 (2012-05-03)







coray from boston
a lot of what i see people mentioning in negative reviews are the things that i actually like most about lotr. i love tolkien's overly descriptive style. i love he passively mentions events that took place on a timeline that we know nothing about. and i love that he took the time to tell us about hobbits sitting in the woods eating cheese. i read it once a year. tied for my favorite "book" with t.h. white's the once and future king.
10/10 (2012-04-13)







chandrapal from india
everytime i read lotr , i discover something new. this is the story which i'll re-read 10 times.
10/10 (2012-03-22)







james from lancaster uk
the strength of this book is not in its story telling, though a huge tolkien fan i do not regard him as the best story teller. the genius of tolkien is in the detail of his world, a detail no author i have read is yet to emulate. i saw the first film first but finished the final book on the way to watch the return of the king, since then i have read it countless times and currently reading it again. when reading the lord of the rings you feel as if every place, event or person has a history behind it/them, and with tolkien it probably does, in fact if you read more tolkien you will only be amazed at how much depth there is ea (the world middle-earth is just a small part of). the lord of the rings has influenced practically every epic fantasy book/series ever since its publication and it's easy to see why, examples are easy. tolkien was without doubt the best fantasy world builder who has ever lived with the beautiful descriptions of the glittering caves and the following language of the elves. it is the perfect book for anyone wishing to become lost in an entirely different world which you will almost believe exists.
10/10 (2012-03-05)







jordan m. rapp from oregon
i first want to point out the lack of knowledge from the makers of the bad reviews. j.r.r. tolkien is the father of the fantasy genre, and anyone who says the books are terrible fails to realize that the book has been a classic for over 40 years. that said, a book that has lasted that long is only boring to those who don't have the brain capacity to focus on the creativity that the series holds. i loved the descriptions that the other reviewers just bash on because they don't have a high enough iq to work out the books complex story line. i thought that the forest was a great idea because it showed that the hobbits had no idea what they were getting into. many reviewers would have many people think the lord of the rings was boring, pointless, uncreative, or all of these, because they just don't understand out of pure stupidity. i on the other hand had an iq test at age five (that's all the fingers on one of your hands for you bad reviewers) and the test showed me to have an iq of 136 so i at age fifteen can understand what most other morons don't; the lord of the rings is a great book.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







andy  from reading
the story is absolutely brilliant there is no doubt about that, however the writing in my opinion was woeful, the level of detail excruciating. once i got through the first book i made a promise to myself that there was no way that i wasn't going to read the other two. i have met more people who couldn't read this trilogy than could, not through lack of ability mind but grim determination. the story is a masterpiece and the films are good, however the story in the books is better, i just wish tolkien had allowed us to use our own imaginations rather then filling in every single detail for us. 
8/10 (2012-03-01)







gary from vancouver, bc
i can't see how any fantasy novel fan can give this less than ten stars. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







richard from london
a classic case of reputation over substance. i've been reading fantasy all my life and found these books trying, difficult and unenjoyable. a book should flow and keep you gripped, this book constantly interrupts the flow of great ideas at every turn with unnecessary detail and stupid poems. compared to less high profile works such as raymond e feists magician, david eddings belgariad and terry brooks shannara series, these have always felt rather flat. one of the rare occassions for me where the movie is better then the book. each to there own and if you enjoyed this to consider it worth 10/10 then fair enough, but for me the 10/10 rating seems given for its fame and originality in a fantasy novel, rather then its actual quality.
7/10 (2012-03-01)







edward from illinois, us
first thing people need to consider, is that the fantasy settings we read about and watch today... did not exist for mr. tolkien. he literally created the ideas which are now the foundations of fantasy stories. that said, let me start. the books did often lull with extended description of foliage and landscape in areas that weren't additive to the scenes. and you rarily find fast paced combat to drive the adrenaline. that alone will kill it for younger readers. you can however immerse yourself in a rich world that started it all. i dock it a star, simply because i am an combat action guy from the era of add advance dungeons & dragons plus attention deficit disorder.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







sarah from usa
i'm a huge fan of fantasy so of course i had to read the books after i saw the movies, and in all honesty i was a little bit disappointed with them. i loved the story-line and the plot was excellent, but i found myself not really liking the story itself. it was way too long, and overly descriptive, and the characters were rather disappointing after the fellowship of the ring because there was no real development to them. they were just there on their quest, and i really found myself wishing for some background with aragorn because he was one of my favorite characters. the other thing i wasn't really fond of was that some of the characters were just placed into the story and they really did not have anything to do with what was going on with the story. i could not get passed tom bombadil, i liked him but he was really unnecessary and he had nothing to do with the main characters after the first book. i did love the hobbits, and i thought that jrrt did a great job developing them and the story in relation to frodo/sam and merry/pippin. i also loved gollum he was a great character, but the only problem i had with him was that he was too singular for my tastes. i really prefer more complex characters and more complex plot line development, and unfortunately lotr really did not do it for me. there were just way too many characters for my liking and it got to a point where it was just way too confusing trying to keep all of the characters straight. the introduction of the rohirrim and everyone connected to those characters did not help that at all. i also did not like like it when he referenced people who had no direct influence on the characters themselves or the story. for example, the elves that were mentioned after the company left rivendell were interesting but they had nothing to do with the characters or the events that transpired, so it felt really unnecessary to me. there were also way too many subplots to the story. that happens when there are too many characters, and it got kind of confusing and annoying towards the middle. it was interesting and i loved the description of the battle scenes, but the villains were a bit of a flop. i really did not like the battle scene between the wraith king and eowyn/merry in the book because he came of as more pompous than threatening, whereas in the movie he was portrayed as being very sinister. that being said i enjoy the books and i thought that they were pretty epic as far as fantasy goes, but i have read better books. unfortunately the series suffered due to being overly long and descriptive, and it suffered a complete lack of character development after the first book. overall it was a good series, and i'd give it an a story telling and the development of a completely magical world, but i give it a c in terms of character development, and i always think that a story is nothing without properly developed characters, and the story really failed to make any of the characters besides the hobbits relatable in any form or fashion. 
6/10 (2012-03-01)







elisabeth from australia 
the most beautifully written piece of literature of all time, tolkien was a genius. people who don't like his songs and descriptions need to take another look! the power and beauty of the lord of the rings is just mind boggling. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







jay from australia
anyone who calls himself a fantasy genre lover and hates this book is a true idiot. firstly, half those morons have watched the movie first and expect the same pace from the book as well. the other half (as you'll find some people here) don't get the story at all and bash it for no reason. the third grup of idiots think that harry potter is better...
10/10 (2012-03-01)







sharang from india
this is the best book i've ever read... no comparison...
10/10 (2012-03-01)







steve from the land of not-influenced-by-ridiculous-hype
are these books creative, creating an entire world in which we can believe? yes. is it a book that can grip the reader, engage them in the sotry? um...i'm going to say no, because the movies did better than the books did. yes, jrr tolkien created a world and essentially created the basic background of most fantasy to come (i'm thinking of the european-medieval world every single fantasy novel is set in). and yes, i'll grant it, i did like it. but it is not the best. but before we get into that, let's say what was good about it. first off is the world. i've never really come across a world as thought out and described as this book. you can truly believe that palces like gondor and rohan do exist. and yes, the split between each book (aragorn & co's quest, then frodo, sam's and gollums) is done very well. i like how it is done. now we come to the (many) bad points. 1. little to no charcaterisation: of course, i'm not going to include sam or gollum, they were really thought out. but everyone else just seemed so... well, it seemed like there was one guy, and tolkien based every character off of this one guy. i don't see a lot of variation, really. 2. do i really need pages of songs and tales that really have no affect on the tale, but make the world richer? no, i don't. i read a book to discover a world, and a fantastic story in the world. i don't read a book to glimpse a new world, and the actual tale come second to it. 3. there was no real threat. as most action sequences never really happened (i'm thinking of the battle of helm's deep - i know people were dying, but i didn't see any fighting or anything). and, the one ring didn't seem to have that much of a threat. it turns someone invisible? from where i come from, that's a super-power. what's sauron going to do? turn invisible, stow away onto a boat, and wreck havoc in valinor (where the elves go to)... actually, that doesn't sound like such a bad idea at all, too bad we never really got any actual threat. and there you have it. yes, i like it. but, in reality, i think tolkien was the creator of this world and tale, but peter jackson really told the tale much much better.
7/10 (2012-03-01)







visenna from poland
sometimes those long descriptions of some places were really annoying, still one of the greatest.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







kaustav from india
this is truly the best high fantasy series i've ever dug in to. first two chapters are not that interesting but necessary. rest of the book will force you to stay glued with it. a must read for every high fantasy fan.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







derric from anderson, sc
minus one star due to the fact that the fellowship of the ring began so slowly. but, still, you have to admire tolkien's handiwork. he took hold of a genre mostly towards children and brought back the point of fantasy, to bring about fear and hopelessness, love and hate, and show them to us in a form we can more understand. he took ahold of legends and introduced them in a new light, bringing back humaniod elves after so long of them appearing as fairy-like creatures. and the orcs point, to symbolize the industrialism that's taking the world, and sauron being branded as one that wants order, even if it's through destructive means. a gem of a tale that points out that we have our flaws. 
9/10 (2012-03-01)







anonymous
the lord of the rings started my way off on fantasy and i've read quite a few novels since. but after experiencing a number of fantasy worlds and quests, i realized that the thing that marked the lord of the rings as "the best" for me was its beauty. the writing style, the locations, the characters, and the theme are all so beautiful. some people say it's "too long", "too descriptive", "too boring" etc,. but maybe they're searching for something different. if you want a book that you'll cherish forever as a beautiful masterpiece, just read this. and don't forget "the silmarillion".
10/10 (2012-03-01)







anna del c. dye from taylorsville, utah
j.r.r. tolkien is the master mind and a great writer. i love his work and the beautiful world he created. he inspired my own elf series.
the silent warrior trilogy was the portal to my elf series. the elf and the princess is book one. two is trouble in the elf city and three elfs in a conquered realm.
they have been received very well in the tolkien market and have great reviews. tolkien opened my imagination, thanks so much. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







nick from inland empire, ca
my name is nick. i'm a college student in california and have just completed a fiction literature class in which we covered extensively all the books from the hobbit to the return of the king and all the movies. yes even the horrible animated version of the hobbit. now as an assignment our teacher has asked us to complete an online post summarizing and reviewing my experiences in the class and of the books. now i have to say i'm not one for books in general unless it peeks my interest and seeing as i have seen the movies before i got around to the books i found it kind of hard to get into for the class. i did how ever get the chance to find out about other interesting characters and parts that were left out of the movie completely. tom bombadil and the necromancer seemed to stay in my mind after reading and actually it lead to me looking further into the world of middle earth. i even went to the point of reading some of the untold tales and the silmarillion to better understand the ways of middle earth and its people. movies aside i have to say the books seemed to be more informative and detailed then the movies were. but then again the movies did give a more realistic view and understanding of the people, the battles, and the cities that i never could have imagined. at each class we would discuss our reading. whether we liked or disliked any particular part. overall the class seemed to enjoy it well enough. overall i recommend you read the books before you see the movies, if you haven't already, but i believe it gives a more personal meaning visually and intellectually. and if you get the opportunity read the other tolkien books as well; especially the silmarillion. the books also brought out the creative side of many of my classmates when it came time to do presentations for the class and i believe the imagery of the movies and the imagination brought by the books had a strong influence on their assignments. my project was a 3d map of middle earth using the maps from tolkien's drawings and not the landscapes of the movies. which were quite different. overall though i do recommend that you read and enjoy the books and the movies equally. they both have their ups and downs so i leave it up to you to decide. nick.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







ryan  from california
hi, i am a california community college student and upon the completion of all lord of the rings books, including the hobbit, my professor assigned a brief book review. it was the first time i have read these books and i was amazed of how j.r. tolkien can describe the scenery and shrubbery with so much detail. at times i did find my self almost wanting to fall asleep, but there is excitement like the battle at minas tirith, helms deep and the mines of moria for example. another great achievement j.r. tolkien has accomplished is creating this whole world in which this epic tale takes place. it is also remarkable that he even created his own language. you will be amazed of the amount of information contained in these books from all the maps, family trees and history that all tie into making these books a remarkable tale. the characters in these novels will definitely stay with me for the rest of my life. from beorn the black man bear, tom bombadil the trippy trailblazer, tree beard and my favorite character bill the "beast of burden" pony. i found it quite humorous when sam would talk to his pony until they had to go there separate ways. another character that i enjoyed is gollum. i also thought gollum was hilarious yet tragic and one of my favorite quotes from gollum is "give me fish now and keep the nasty chips!" i would definitely recommend this book to anyone looking for a good fantasy novel to read. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







shawn from space coast, florida
i really never post on these but after reading what marine from athens, greece said, i feel i must.
yea, for a year i hated it. yes it was big, yes he generated a gigantic world of very detailed characters, and ... yes, it is very, disappointingly, childish in my mind.
then i started reading older fantasy, wow. it's worse. it is childish or dull or, well i really couldn't get through about 5 or 6 authors.
it occurred to me, this was fantasy up until the lotr series.
so we have a total non author who sets out just to write a story for some kids, redefine a genre. and think about it. almost every fantasy novel follows his lead.
early in the current fantasy book a typical, unlikely, usually young (which frodo still is because of the ring,) individual (usually male because most fantasy novelists are male, chicks seem to do more urban fantasy i've noticed.) finds out very abruptly he is "ment" for something.
then he must quickly leave his home, usually with a good friend and another who will cause mischief, so total ruin will not hit his home by the super evil thing that wants him dead.
don't forget, in these books our unlikely hero is warned just before our bad almighty evil doer is able to get to him first! and who does the warning? well, again its always the same. a very wise, experienced (fill in blank for the book) wizard in this case figures it all out, just in the nick of time.
nowwwwwww, start the adventure!
hero has no clue, mysterious wise saviour of our hero is mysterious, only telling what he has to in order to not overwhelm our hero who is on shock already.
fast forward, our hero has started to go from unlikely to likely, becoming somewhat proficient in his previously unknown ability, able to now fend for himself. our mysterious saviour has trained him or he has learned through trials during the adventure. also the saviour shares more, usually we learn a dark secret about this person at this point, to sow doubt in the readers mind as well as the hero...
ff again, nearing the end of the adventure. the hero has now out shined or is about to out shine his masters skills. also he know what must be done and will do it at all cost.( b4 he would have run like a screaming wet kitten from his final "destiny" had he known everything too early.)
now our heros teacher-savior-mysterious powerful dude dies either saving him, gets injured, something like that. he will admit and explain the dark secret that's not so dark and actually makes the hero feel more determined and mad at himself for getting cocky and loosing trust in his beloved teacherby listening to the twisted words of our villain. the hero now learns the final secret or has the final weapon needed to win.
if the teacher-master dies at this point, the secret is usually what he learned and dies for, whispering it at the very end in a last, heroic way. if he isn't killed then its usually an epic monster that is guarding an almighty weapon. our hero is fighting this beast and is about to die when out master takes the hit. if he survives, he is to wounded to go on and will be a hindrance. once again, either way, the hero has what he needs and now is even more determined to vanquish his moral enemy.
one more tolken rule, the hero will always, at some point, usually just in the last 100 pages, but not always here, make a leg on his own. most books have it near the end so they can do the cheesy self hatred, blaming himself for a bit, then he will run into a crazy, weird person or creature. this creature will sense the pain (they always do!) and poke at, point out his flaws, and antagonize our hero to a breaking point. here just b4 our hero smashes our antagonist to bits, he realizes the dude is right and comes to terms with his loss. he now has wasted valuable time, again usually at the end, of our story filling pages with oh the loss, i can't do it on my own, self pity page filling crap... this is ok, because now he has learned a true lesson, and is mental and powerful enough to meet his nemesis and the rest of our story is a large and an epic buildup to his final test.
if our main teacher-mysterious dude didn't die or get to injured to go on, someone who means everything to our hero dies or his own people are attacked being nearly whipped out, or he was to late to save a town and the dead little hobbit children and human children alike who he feels he should have been in time to save. this is to tear at his heart strings.
you how it goes down from here in nearly every fantasy novel. for one reason or another, our hero is making his solo track, taught his lesson by our smart ass protagonist buddy who happened to just be where he was needed and got him back on track. our hero, constantlcy growing more confident after the protagonists home, now makes his way seeming easily through deadly lands and impossible odds. our hero now is much to powerful to allow any of the minions standing is his way (crazy to try, creatures and even the land itself was broken and evil), it nowtakes every bit of his skill but he gets it slow him from reaching his final fight. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







jason from usa
amazing. j.r.r. tolkien has literally created an entire world using descriptive imagery, captivating and marvelous word choice, and vivid, life-like characters. it tickles your imagination: dwarves, elves, hobbits, wizards, and other mythical beings and settings which makes you want to keep reading more and more. anyone that has given this a 9 or less really does not understand the pure power of this book. if you had kept reading, you would have liked it more, and that is a guaranteed fact. it is necessary to read the first book so you may know the world that surrounds the hobbits. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







alex from uk
whoever gives this book 1 star or 2 or 3 simply have not read it, and that is fact. this is simply a marvel of the human imagination, do not listen to anyone who rates this at less than 5 stars, it's simply not possible to dislike this book if you are a fantasy lover, brilliant.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







abe from usa, tn
in my opinion, this is the greatest book that has ever been written (apart from the bible), and it definitely set the standard for all fantasy books to follow. it is written with precise detail, not as much as dean koontz books though imo. the only part i have a semi-dislike of is the songs... but if you don't like them, simply skip them, since they don't take away from the story. one thing i'd like to note is if you like harry potter, you'll adore this. i believe it is much better than hp (i've read all seven hp books as well), and you will notice things from hp ( http://www.mugglenet.com/hpvslotr.shtml ), which were "inspired" by lotr, which also inspired many other fantasy books. i recommend watching the movies first. if you like them, i'd then recommend reading the books, and if you also like those, the book "the hobbit" which actually came before lotr. lotr was actually the sequel to "the hobbit".
10/10 (2012-03-01)







shell from winchester
i have been reading and re-reading this book for half a century - and everytime it takes me somewhere new.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







reese from taylors, sc
loved these books, but can't reward it the highest title only because it started a revolution not refined it. many authors from george martin, terry goodkind, and robert feist helped make this a mainstream trend.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







richard from ghana
we come to it at last... the greatest tale ever told... one tale to rule them all.... a timeless masterpiece, no doubt!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







margaret from boston
it's an absolutely must-read. i love the books and the movie so much! it's so good! a precious edition to your bookshelf at home if you hadn't added the trilogy yet. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







dragos from romania
the books and the movie were almost perfect but now its time for something new: gandalf, eragon, harry potter or voldemort, galbatorix and saruman? who is the most powerful wizard of the world? answer:none of them-there is a new wizard in town: is powerful, is young, is handsome , is alone and he is not bothered by all that. the wizard who will rock your fantasy world: the black vampire. watch him on www.freefantasybooks.com.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







mimi from manila
highly recommended. i admire jrrt so much for being able to bring us into a world as real as middle-earth. it was so 3-dimensional you could really believe it actually existed.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







juhan from cape town
best book ever. worth reading no matter if your a novice or experienced reader. books are in all respects better than their movie counterparts. sure the films create the visual aspect of the written word but if you read carefully through all the detail (no matter how long) you can recreate all the emotions, landscapes and characters yourself. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







jared from san francisco, ca
i can't stop reading this book. even when i don't feel like reading, i'll find myself curled up on my bed, reading through the pages faster and faster, unable to put it down. the storytelling is flawless. the characters are unforgettable. the dialogue is pleasing. mr. tolkien created an entire world from his own imagination, and how i long to find some portal that will send me to middle-earth. he created the languages, geography, and the history of middle-earth itself. such a feat is remarkable for a human being, and it alone should be honored. there are songs, poems, story-telling, and never do they get old. yeah, maybe the constant describing of geographical locations can get tiring, but it is wholly necessary in order to put yourself in this world. when i was younger, i would skip these parts. but now, i read them willingly, and sometimes if i space out and miss all that i have read, i will go back and re-read those passages. this book is, and i can't stress enough, the greatest piece of literature of all of time. if you think otherwise, then you must be a harry potter fan. harry potter is great, but the lord of the rings is superior to all fantasy novels. trying to surpass its legendary greatness is like trying to climb the misty mountains without limbs.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







bradley  from new mexico
ok, the movies may be great but the book is the greatest! even if i'm only on page 115 but who cares... 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







flossie from the kingdom of lur
i loved the stories and songs becuase they really told you all about the history and culture of the place. it was fantastic, even at 12, and i loved the whole world that was created, possibly even more than the story itself. the silmarillion is good for that: it explains all the first age of middle earth, although it's quite rough, but it's amazing how long tolkien spent living in his world so as to know all the battles and tales from it.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







ry from michigan
hands down the king of all fantasy trilogy. regardless of any flaws it may have it will always be the quintessential fantasy series that any true reader of the genre must read. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







jake from crewkerne
amazing, the detail he put in draws you closer and makes you want to read more. brilliant!!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







liam from baldock,uk
a brilliant book with lots of magic and much better than the films so a must buy! but it is long...
9/10 (2012-03-01)







nona from uk
i haven't read it and wouldn't want to because it is way tooooo long but the movies were absolutely fantastic!!!! i am very obsessed with harry potter and the twilight saga but this has to be the top three stories/movies i love best so thanks alot tolkien.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







norris from lordmanner
i like tolkien's take on the book. it is amazing.

10/10 (2012-03-01)







likkamatti from finland
the lord of the rings is definitely my favourite book. epic battles, adventures, heroic romance, hobbits, elves, dwarfs... what else could you ask from a fantasy book?
j.r.r. tolkien is my favourite author. love it. perfection.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







angie
the best. the movie rocks and the book is pure talent. tolkien is so good with characters, plots, and writing overall!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







anonymous from unknown
i loved the movies, and the books. they were amazing! nothing is better. this book is second to no fantasy book ever written! i absolutely loved it. my dad read it to me when i was 10 and i fell in love with it and the movie.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







jett from u.s.a.
i love all of j.r.r. tolkien's work. he is definitely my favourite author. he has created a world that not only appeals to kids but is a great read for adults too. enjoy as you read the lord of the rings!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







lonny from sweden
one of the best book series ever. if you haven�t read any fantasy this is the one to read. epic battles, fantastic language, and a wonderful world too discover.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







willie from uk
it is the best book ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!! it is another awesome book by tolkien. whoever says it's bad needs to re-read the book. if you rated the book 5 or lower you are a bad reader.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







louise from uk
i've just finished reading the books, and i enjoyed them. very well written, great plot and tolkien obviously knows his own world in a way that few writers do. only problem with it is that books 2 and three seemed more like historical accounts than fiction. half the characters seemed under-developed and were clearly only there to propel the plot on. outside the shire there was no banter, no one discussed their feelings, thoughts or personal lives at the end of the book, i still couldn't describe a single thing about legolas or gimli's characters (these two only seemed to be used to make up the numbers- the scenery was better explained than them!). even aragorn had so little individual character besides what was informed at first that i didn't feel as much as i should have done when his life changed at the end. also, the romantic relationships seemed false and lacked chemistry, as even long-married couples mainly spoke to each other formally, and no one seemed to show affection unless their partner was dying. it was all too clinical and serious, and purely functional. the characters never really behaved realistically- they only really talked when they had to, and only to discuss actions or strategy, never personal matters, and only the hobbits really showed nerves or anxiety when going into battle- even when they knew they could be walking to their death. it was the same in the appendixes. lots of names and dates, no real soul or feeling. also, lots about the past, hardly anything about the 'present' and the lives of the characters.
i also didn't like the description of the orcs. i liked the way we were shown they were bad (orcs were more well developed than most of the other characters put together!) but i don't like it when races are portrayed as inherently evil, and it's beyond me how a language can be 'foul'.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







jamie from australia
the lord of the rings is the greatest piece of writing ever. and those who think it's too detailed- please just go and learn how to read properly. do you realise that its detail that makes a novel believable and gives it the various emotions within it. fantasy epics are meant to be extremely detailed, go read a child's novel if you say it's too detailed.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







wes from ohio
no book is perfect and that is true of lotr. it does however stand as the crowning achievement of the grandfather of fantasy and all other fantasy books are eventually measured against it. i would reccomend any reader to start with the hobbit, especially younger readers, and grow into lotr. please remember to thank mr. jrr tolkien for the genre when reading.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







jimmy from scotland
first read the lord of the rings 40 years ago and have read them again every 5 or 6 years since.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







javan from coffs harbour
this book is great.... way better than the movies. the hobbit is an easier read but it is not as good. i found lotr a bit of a hard read, and so i gave it an 8, not a 9 or 10. i must say though, the wheel of time is better than lotr by about 1/2 a mark (or at least the first 6 books are). books 6-12 are about a mark worse than lotr. the fact that each book is a 850 pages average makes it a very slow series. just try the first 70 pages of book 1.
8/10 (2012-03-01)







lee from manchester
this is a timeless classic. the characters that tolkien invented have stayed with me for over 20 years and the book is as fresh in my mind as they were back then. the visual imagery is staggering and the themes running through the lord of the rings are essentially what makes this timeless.
never has has one book had such an effect on my whole life and none have (yet) surpassed it.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







duncan from reading
its the originator, its the first, many have been inspired by it, many have tried to emulate it and none have quite succeeded. yes the first 300 pages are heavy going, but they are totally neccessary in understanding the story and the characters. the films tell you the basic story, but peter jackson changed too many things that detract from it.. he thought he could outwrite the master.. he should have realised that you shouldn't change what is as close to perfection as is possible. you may have seen the films, but read the books. you will wonder, you will feel every emotion there is and quite simply the book is the most comprehensive stunning work of fantasy there is. this book, is and will continue to be one of the classics, the books that people will still be reading in centuries time.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







jessie from wales
this is the best book ever! if you have watched the films and enjoyed them then buy the book, it's 100% better than the films and they are good.
everything about the lord of the rings is magical and a book that can be read and read and read and read again.
this book will still be around and popular in hundreds of years time, that's just how good it is!
10/10 (2012-03-01)









9.7/10 from 147 reviews

all jrr tolkien reviews

the legend of sigurd and gudrún 
the lord of the rings 
the hobbit 
the children of hurin 
the silmarillion 
roverandom 
tales from the perilous realm 
the art of the hobbit 
the story of kullervo 
the lay of aotrou and itroun 
beren and luthien 
the fall of arthur 
the fall of gondolin 
sauron defeated (the history of the lord of the rings: part 4)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




jonathan strange & mr norrell by susanna clarke






the year is 1806 and the country is england. the napoleonic wars are raging in france and magic, an academic subject only, is no longer practised. a street peddler foretells of a prophesy of the return of magic to england, which has been dead since the disappearance of the raven king some three hundred years ago.enter mr norrell, his magical displays enchant the nation, he raises fair maidens from the dead and sends ghost ships to battle the french. he is at pains however, to ensure that no other lays claim to his title of england’s greatest (and only) magician and with the help of his servant childermass, he searches out every book of practical magic to be added to his private library and every theoretical magician to ensure their interest in the subject swiftly wanes...with a little persuasion. enter jonathan strange, a young man who appears to challenge mr norrell's status. although only a novice, his talents are brilliant and whilst norrell has poured for years over his books to obtain his knowledge strange's natural aptitude for the subject knows no bounds. a battle between these two magicians threatens to overshadow even the war. their dark practices cause them more trouble than they could ever, possibly imagine."ever since the first evening mr segundas had been intending to ask mr honeyfoot about the learned society of magicians of manchester which dr foxcastle had mentioned. he did so now. "it was a society of quite recent foundation," said mr honeyfoot, "and its members were clergymen of the poorer sort, respectable ex-tradesmen, apothecaries, lawyers, retired mill owners who got up a little latin and so forth, such as people might be termed half-gentleman. i believe dr foxcastle was glad when they disbanded - he does not think that people of that sort have any business becoming magicians. and yet, you know, there were several clever men among them. they began, as you did, with the aim of bringing back practical magic to the world. they were practical men and wished to apply the principal of reason and science to magic as they had done to the manufacturing arts. they called it 'rational thaumaturgy'. when it did not work they became discouraged. well, they cannot be blamed for that. but they let their disillusionment lead them into all sorts of difficulties. they began to think that there was not now nor ever had been magic in the world. they said that the aureate magicians were all deceivers or were themselves deceived. and that the raven king was an invention of the northern english to keep themselves from the tyranny of the south (being north-country men themselves they had some sympathy with that). oh, their arguments were very ingenious - i forget how they explained fairies. they disbanded, as i told you, and one of them, whose name was aubrey i think, meant to write it all down and publish it. but when it came to the point he found a sort of fixed melancholy had settled on him and was not able to rouse himself enough to begin."this novel creates such an atmosphere that you could almost be in 19th century england, in fact the attention to detail is such that at times, even with the obvious fantasy subject matter, you feel as if you are reading an historical account of real events. it is the clever use of real historical figures such as wellington and byron woven throughout the book that lends an authenticity to the events you are reading about and it is seamlessly done. the pomposity of the english ladies and gentlemen of the era is fully realised and susanna clarke has written the book in a style not dissimilar to dickens and austin.this is a large book at over 800 pages but the richness of the tale keeps the reader enchanted until the very end. clarke brings life to all her characters and her imagination leaps out from every page. to have kept the writing style uniform throughout is itself a triumph.the book contains many footnotes, which could easily of distracted from the story but instead provide interesting stories of their own and are integral to understanding the character and other world of 'faerie', which is the starting point of the raven king and therefore all english magic.susanna clarke shows amazing intellect and imagination in creating this new world and it is a joy for the reader to immerse himself or herself in. this book is highly recommended and mainly for adults. it is a genuinely original and arresting story and will establish susanna clarke as one of the finest new authors of our generation.10/10 a genuinely original story, beautifully told.


buy on amazon

review by amanda white
16 positive reader review(s) for jonathan strange & mr norrell







jonathan strange & mr norrell reader reviews

nathan davis from united states
beautiful in all its magnitude; such genius from the first word to the last, which sheds the most unique imagination over its pages like magic growing, twisting forth from the page in words and sentences that captivate and intrigue any soul that loses them selves in its pages.
10/10 (2020-04-26)







xavier from austria
jonathan strange and mr mr norrell is one of the finest books i've ever read. poetically written with pacing that may be too slow to some but most will find it a delight. if you're a fan of historical fantasy you must read this book.
10/10 (2020-03-22)







thomas from united kingdom
a very interestingly and matter of fact style of magic, with so much incredibly strong thought out law, the world presented is enchanting, and developed, and beautiful even, but perhaps the best part is the narrator and the presentation of such a world.
9/10 (2019-12-13)







piero from italy
it's a beautiful book, yet disappointing because it wasn't what i wanted to read. it's over 800 pages and i didn't feel them at all. jonathan stange and mr. norrell, talks about magic, it doesn't exist anymore, until the nobleman "norrell" from the northern england begin to study real magicians old books. he has a huge library with unvaluable rarities. and this is the good part because the story is about how hard it means to learn magic, it's how it should be, norrell takes all his life studying and finally can show to the world that magic exists. he's the only true magician, he's careful, introverse, but confident. he is special, he deserved to be special. since then the events get an other road. jonathan strange is the second magician which emerges casually for no reason at all, he hasn't books, he didn't learn, he cannot learn, he just copies spells and experiment on field, eventually he got "natural talents" which makes him like: "hello there, i'm a mage, i can move the world, a country, the moon, with almost no efforts, with no clue at all of how i succeeded", or something close. it ruined my expectations, magic must be hard, magic needs efforts and long studies, a lot of practice, failures, and strict rules. this is suddenly lost. now i'm not saying it's a bad book, because susanna clarke knows how to tell stories, but somehow she missed a great opportunity to write something epic. this genial thing of this book is that is based on a dualism: team norrell vs. team strange, at the begin there is peace between them, but they don't share the same point of view of magic and eventually divide their partnership. both of them have good and controversial bad aspects: strange wants teach magic to everyone with no care of criminals who may use magic for their crimes, and may begins a world disaster. norrell instead tries to keep magic for himself, because he wants be "the greater wizard of all times", he also care for his country, he says black magic is despicable and tries to protect the world, attempting to stop strange who wants spread magic knowledge publishing it in a journal or books. norrell however isn't gentle at all with people, he's selfish and doesn't care of anyone, neither of his best friend/servant childermass. the author of this book gives all her best to depict norrell as hateful as she can, to counterbalance things. strange care for people, but he's reckless, he protect his country in a different way than norrell. he goes directly with the army to give assistance (still without killing anyone, but stressing the enemy), risking to die. and this is it. choose your side when you talk with a friend about this book, argue with him. why did you choose norrell or strange?
8/10 (2017-11-25)







sandra from germany
i have read this book shortly after it came out and i very much enjoyed reading it. it is written beautifully, full of style and wonderfully drafted characters. the book is not boring but one certainly has to be able to enjoy the art and craftmanship that went into this book. yes, it is not action packed but that's what makes this book so special! for years i keep checking if s. clarke has written another book and to my disappointment she hasn't yet. believe me, there are not many authors i keep checking on.
9/10 (2015-11-17)







tim from uk
careful ideas, carefully developed with an adult sensibility. the antithesis of harry potter (and, i suppose, harry dresden) and not to everyone's taste. it's also, and thank english magic for it, nothing like the bloated game of thrones. hope mirrlees does indeed come to mind, and also neil gaiman who draws the same link to lud-in-the-mist. deliberately reminiscent of a 19th century novel. i'm unsurprised at the number of americans and, i suspect, young thrusting, sword-wielding and gold-hoarding wannabe sorcerers who don't like it. i'm more than disappointed that susanna clarke has written so little.
9/10 (2015-05-25)







billykravitz from united states of america
not so much a classic novel as a rambling 'history' of magic, magicians and enchanted realms in napoleonic britain and europe. might resemble a series of novels or story arcs. little in the way of compelling conflict. or tension. simply one magnificent revelation after another, like rare specimens in a cluttered curiosity shop. but real life is like that too. things aren't always so dramatically arranged... they just happen. in that respect, this book makes wonderful fantasy seem very, very natural, as if it all quite simply unfolded just that way. keep it next to your bed and read it as you would the bible.
8/10 (2015-01-06)







joanna from scotland
fantastic book. wonderfully written, dryly humorous, vivid characters, and delightful footnotes explaining the magical history of the version of england depicted. the best book i have read in a long time!
10/10 (2014-08-07)







rcs from philippines
absolutely loved it.
10/10 (2014-06-10)







d from ukraine
it's really amazing! i loved every page. it has style. i enjoyed the text itself as much as i enjoyed the plot. it is exquisitely british, it has both novelty and tradition. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







john from childermass
i see a lot of reviews that indicate this book is "boring." nonsense! "dry" it may be, but boring it is not. i can see how a generation (or several) that was raised on television and to-the-point novels might have trouble coping with the delightful "austen-esque" use of language. i admit this is not a book for all readers. personally, i absolutely loved it. the delightfully dry humor, the 'historical' footnotes, the intriguingly complex use of magic and mystery...the amazing use of language only increases the pleasure. though a seriously weighty tome, i finished this book in just two days, i was so engrossed in it's story. if you've an appreciation for romantic literature and fantasy, you must give this book it's fair chance. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







gracie from salt lake city, utah, u.s.
an amazing book.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







jane from wiltshire
this is a book that i can not praise highly enough. it's magical, the period setting the most believable i have ever encountered. beautifully written with a wonderfully dry humour throughout. this is a book that shows that fantasy is not just elves and goblins but can be a book of which charles dickens would be proud! 10 out of 10!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







mary from lancashire
i have just finished this book, which has taken a couple of weeks as i only get to read for a short time in the evenings. it is an amazing book and although it requires at times real commitment in following the story (not least with the footnotes being a whole other book in themselves!)it rewards you richly with the beautiful prose and incredible attention to detail making this book a true modern classic that you just have to read!
9/10 (2012-03-01)







thomas from leeds
a truly wonderful book that has great characters and fantastic plot. the sense of humour that runs through is dry but often hilarious. this is fantasy for adults, i doubt that children would enjoy it, mainly due to the size of the book (800+ pages) and they would probably find the themes slightly too adult to enjoy.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







william from glasgow
the way the book is written is the key for me with this book, the footnotes, which could have made it seem like a history book, are wonderfully witty and do not distract you from the story itself.
the story is great, the two magicians, mr norrell and jonathan strange are completely different but complement each other superbly. the supporting cast, which includes childermass, drawlight, segundas and black do what a supporting cast should do and this all goes to make reading it a real treat.
susanna clarke will be hard pressed to write another book this good bit i, for one, am hoping that she succeeds. 
9/10 (2012-03-01)









9.4/10 from 17 reviews

all susanna clarke reviews

jonathan strange & mr norrell 
the ladies of grace adieu 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the name of the wind by patrick rothfuss
(the kingkiller chronicle: book 1)





when friends hand me books to read, i am always suspicious of whether the books will be any good. maybe it is my own great arrogance (or maybe one of many), but i just figure that – unless they are of a special few – i am the better judge of books. thankfully, twice this theory has fallen by the wayside.the book is called the name of the wind, and it is written by a new author, patrick rothfuss. this also had me a little worried, as i am becoming more and more wary of new authors. but my fears were groundless. more than groundless, they could even be called vaguely offensive to rothfuss who proved himself in his first mass market literary outing to be nothing short of a genius.the name of the wind, day one of the kingkiller chronicles, quickly made its way into my top fantasy series list. the book, which is essentially an autobiography of a once famous now reclusive musician, arcanist and adventurer named kvothe, is revolutionary – to my eyes at least – in its storytelling method. autobiographical for the most part, it starts, finishes, and occasionally reverts to a narrative telling of the interview from whence the autobiographical information springs.the story wraps around kvothe’s life just as you would want, exploring his journey from childhood into adolescence, and a little of the way into maturity. the universe in which this story is set is beautifully and articulately created. this includes everything from a more academic style of magic then is normally employed all the way through to making storytelling and music a large part of the story.storytelling, in fact, seems to be a thread that will soon be picked up in the sequel, the wise man’s fear (to be released sometime in 2009). kvothe is not only relating his life story in a tale to the chronicler (book one is day one of the storytelling), but spent his early life as an eduma ruh; a travelling and performing group of people, gypsy-like in their lifestyles but with much more focus on their literary and musical talents.there are a few tropes found in the name of the wind, but none are exploited to the point where you are remembering other stories. kvothe is left as an orphan after his father’s study into the chandrian unwittingly brings their attention down upon his family. from there kvothe must make his way as an urchin, before he manages – miraculously – to gain entry into the university of the arcanist that had travelled with his father’s family so many years ago.kvothe’s life is very much split into sections, and we will no doubt see this continue as the succeeding books are released. the second section of kvothe’s life depicts his life at the university, and his re-entry into music. his love for the beautiful denna is a heartbreaking yet funny story, while his deeds and misdeeds at the university make for compelling and sympathetic reading.but throughout the novel we are given hints at the greater parts of kvothe’s life. the series is called the kingkiller chronicles, yet we don’t know which king kvothe killed or why. his talents are obviously well known throughout the lands, yet he has only made himself known in the city of tarbean. and revenge must be taken on the chandrian, given his fervent attempts to regain entry into the university library after he was banned for life from ever entering.patrick rothfuss is, in my opinion, one of the better storytellers around at the moment. too early in the game to give him full marks or list him amongst the nobility of fantasy, but his place there is almost assured. rarely do you find yourself taken out of the story, and no serious lack of writing skill can even be guessed at, let alone found.if you haven’t already, make sure you pick up patrick rothfuss’s the name of the wind in time to read the wise man’s fear in april of 09.10/10 patrick rothfuss is one of the better storytellers around at the moment.


buy on amazon

review by joshua s hill
55 positive reader review(s) for the name of the wind
126 positive reader review(s) in total for the the kingkiller chronicle series







the name of the wind reader reviews

andreas from germany
these books are amazing! i came here 3 days ago to find something good to read and the reviews encouraged me to give the novels a try. i literally couldn't stop reading until i finished both books.
10/10 (2021-12-06)







love/hate from usa 
don't start.....the second coming of christ will happen before book three is ever released. but best fantasy books ever!!! author needs a star on the walk of fame and a tar and feathering... both...... finish please.
10/10 (2021-09-06)







jonáš from slovakia
best book i read in a long time, couldn't stop reading.
10/10 (2021-07-13)







samuel stassel from slovakia
easily the best book i've read so far. it has both the charm and thrill of a fantasy story and a spice of romance as well. throwing the character in and out of various situations and the story being told from two time perspectives makes this the best written fantasy book i've read.
10/10 (2020-10-20)







jacob from united states
i will start by saying i am a huge fan of the fantasy genre, and have read hundreds of series, from tolkien to martin, sanderson, jordan, butcher, brett, eddings, brooks, goodkind, etc... i'm also an avid reader of science fiction and general thrillers. but to put it simply, this is my favorite book of all time. i have never had so much of an emotional connection to a book. not even reading lotr for the first time as a kid, nor even the finale of the wheel of time years later, had as much of an impact on me as this book. i cried multiple times, and i'm not much of a crier. the writing is so beautiful, and kvothe is so relatable to me, being a musician and gifted student who also made a mess of life. the magic system is very unique and well thought out. the characters feel real, the prose is incredible, and the story is brilliant. this book is not for everyone, as a few of the reviews below me can attest. if you want huge battles and lots of action, fighting, and powerful magic spells, this isn't that book. its a coming of age story, a story of love, loss, regret, and irony. its a story that takes the powerful hero archetype and turns it on its head, and adds in a sobering (but ultimately beautiful) dose of reality. its a tragedy of a gifted boy who becomes a legend but loses too much on the way. the second book was just as good, and i still hope the 3rd book will be released someday, because the biggest tragedy is not being able to read more of this story.
10/10 (2020-03-24)







shivam patel from india
damn!! what a story!!!! can't wait for the third book of the triology❤️❤️
10/10 (2020-03-16)







matthew from united states
can't put the book down. some people are complaining about how kvothe is "too good at everything" but why would you pick up a book about "the greatest and most powerful wizard of all time" if you did not think he would be good at everything... obviously he struggles internally with some things but externally he is a master. i love it. great book.
10/10 (2019-12-10)







clint from united states
magic, science, love, this book have everything it's great very great book.
10/10 (2019-11-21)







james from united states
it's great with very good characters, unique magic system, one of the best i ever read, well done patrick rothfuss.
10/10 (2019-11-21)







lex from usa
it's great book i don't see why many people hate it.
10/10 (2019-11-18)







max from australia
great book! (although kvothe is too overpowered).
9/10 (2019-01-04)







alex from ukraine
i just want to tell that these 2 books of the trilogy are just amazing. first few hours i wasn't interested too much (part where kvothe didn't even start a story, just the inn and so on). but when the real story started, man, i didn't expect so much. in a nutshell, now i'm a fan of the trilogy and waiting for the 3rd book. also, what i want to emphasize is that this story has many aspects: magic, romantic, traveling, interesting conversation, humor and just our everyday sorrows and joys. 10 out of 10, good job, patrick.
10/10 (2018-11-05)







rc from united states
it's really good.
10/10 (2018-08-16)







andrew from united states
i'll preface this review by saying that i, obviously, love this book. the prose, pacing, characterizations, and story structure are superlative. however, since none of this is new information, i'll just leave a few responses to common complaints i've been seeing about the name of the wind. 1. "kvothe is too good at everything." while this complaint is grounded in legitimacy, since kvothe has a multitude of talents, it nonetheless misses the mark. kvothe is not naturally gifted in everything, he's just really smart and incredibly dedicated to study. if he had a natural propensity to sygaldry, sympathy, etc. and entered the story as a pseudo-deific character, that would be one thing. but kvothe does not have natural talent for anything but learning. the story goes out of its way to show kvothe's struggles with accepting and learning about the larger world he is thrust into after the tragedy that befalls him at the start of the story. there's a lot more to be said on this, but instead i'll move on to... 2. "rothfuss talks for too long about subjects that are boring, like kvothe's poverty." kvothe's poverty is an important part of the story. it's his bugbear, his foil, the one thing that haunts him from place to place and the ultimate counter to any advantage he gains. kvothe's first and most important fear is not being in control, of being powerless. this, of course, (spoilers) stems from his complete powerlessness when faced with the chandrian and the death of his troupe. poverty makes him feel powerless again - he feels like it strips him of everything that makes him unique. and so, poverty is placed front and center in this story. the chandrian may be his quest, but poverty is his truest nemesis. 3. "nothing happens." the nature of the story is not one of epic proportions. the name of the wind is, at its core, a character study. the framing narrative informs the story by allowing the character of kvothe to be the focus of the story. so, while there are no immense battles or monstrous evils to be defeated, there are personal demons and emotional quests that kvothe explore's. this works as well as it does because the character of kvothe that we see in the frame narrative is vastly different from the character we travel with for most of the story's length. there is an underlying tension to every victory, a sense of tragedy to every defeat, because we know where the sum total of kvothe's experiences lead - to tragedy, anonymity, and ruin. the battles to be fought are those of a more personal nature rather than the supersized wars that are so prevalent in many fantasy novels. if you are looking for epic fantasy on a grand scale, another "way of kings" or "wheel of time" series, this is not that. if, instead, you are looking for a story with emotional resonance, beatific prose, and a tangible sense of heart and care in the construction of the world and characters, then you should give the name of the wind a try. "music is a fine thing, but metal lasts." the name of the wind is both.
10/10 (2018-08-10)







charlie from uk
genuinely despairing at the number of people giving this book low reviews. i'm convinced that many of them must be trolls, and the rest are simply, not meaning to cause offence, incapable of appreciating what makes a good piece of literature. the majority of these negative comments cite 'the annoying, implausible main character' as the main cause of their displeasure - let me draw your attention to achilles of the iliad (which, by the way, is arguably the greatest piece of literary fiction to have been composed), to the eponymous hero of the harry potter series (far and away the best-selling book series of all time - and little wonder, it's great!), to shakespeare's hamlet, protagonist of one of the greatest plays that will ever be written: the best heroes throughout the history of literature are balanced by their flaws and their assets, as kvothe so demonstrably is. this book is a skilfully composed amalgam of several distinct genres of fiction - the epic, the bildungsroman, the romance - and as such, fails in no respect to appeal to all types of avid reader. whether you seek a sentimental tale of love and loss, a thrilling journey of toil and hardship, or a provocative fable with deeper moral implications, this novel has facets which should appeal to you. most striking to me personally are the honesty of rothfuss' characterisation and the beauty of his prose. having read a vast quantity of fiction, from dozens of esteemed authors spanning millennia, i can categorically say that this is one of the best books i have ever had the joy of reading, and one with uncommonly high rereadability; indeed, i feel i gain more pleasure from this book with each subsequent reading, as i perceive more about the inner workings of the characters, the subtleties of the plot, and the deeper nuances and themes of the text as a whole. i genuinely believe that those who have given this book 1-star reviews should have their opinions nullified - the only explanation is that they have misunderstood the text entirely, and as such their misguided observations do not reflect the true brilliance that patrick rothfuss has achieved here.
10/10 (2018-05-17)







josh from australia
i’m convinced the negative reviews are from neanderthals. this is a beautifully written book. have you ever had a moment in your real life when you’re desperately searching for the appropriate words to do that moment justice? well this book is full of those moments and he nails every single one. i found myself constantly wishing i had his command over my vocabulary. also, the way rothfuss handles the “‘magic” in this book is a welcome relief from the majority of fantasy books just just brush over how magic is done and expect you to just accept it. if your idea of a good fantasy book is 10 pages of character development, followed by 400 pages of ultra descriptive fight scenes, then maybe give this book a skip. but if you want to read something beautiful, you can’t go wrong. it’s poetic, thoughtful, emotional, philosophical, and sits at the tippy top of my list of favourite books.
10/10 (2018-03-28)







rachelle from united states of america
this is a book that i could read forever and never get bored, the pure complexity of culture and all together raw feelings displayed by all the characters is incredible, i do believe though that my favourite piece of his works is the concept of the 7 words to make a girl love you. it’s so much fun to find all the different places 7 word sentences appear when kvothe is speaking to any number of girls. there are very few books out there that have pulled me so thoroughly into the story so completely that on my best and my worst days rothfuss' words make me forget who and where i am. we all share the fear, joy, laughter and sorrows that take place. we experience the jolt of surprise as "kote" pauses in his story from his younger self. in my personal opinion for all that that is worth, patrick rothfuss is right there along the authors of the classics and even surpassing a few of them. i take great joy in telling people about his works and look forward to what he might come out with next.
10/10 (2018-02-13)







adam from united states
one of my favorites, ever. so good! i love the fact that kvothe breaks the trifecta mold. most contend with the character that is proactive, likable, and powerful. i think the way that rothfuss overcomes this is absolutely brilliant. in the autobiographical style in which he writes, we are allowed to take the lead role. now we are awesome just like kvothe. also, inside of this character is where we see the most interesting bits, his weaknesses. now he's less perfect, but more interesting. pure genius, all there is to it.
10/10 (2018-02-08)







rob from canada
a very well-written and interesting tale that will keep you up as you promise yourself, "only one more page." while some of the negative comments here have some truth to them the negative scores are an unfair judgement. there were a couple of inconsistencies but regardless i loved this novel from cover to cover and recommend it to all of my friends.
9/10 (2018-01-07)







pranjalya from india
absolutely loved the book. the setting, the characters, kvothe, denna, auri, elodin... and the best thing about this book is the prose... it's beautiful. and so subtle hints... the dialogues are awesome and the book leaves you looking for more... my favorite book series.
10/10 (2017-12-04)







lukasz from uk
i have mixed feelings about the book. on the one hand i want to know what is up with the main character with kvothe. i also find the autobiographical aspect of the book interesting. on the other hand, chapters repeat themselves as if the author forgot he already described something (a place, a feeling, an object) a few chapters before. the book also seems pretty slow including details that are great to read for the first few chapters, but then you want to get to the sense of it all.
7/10 (2017-10-04)







andy from england
i read this book shortly after the second part (the wise mans fear) was released and very quickly read them both. i absolutely loved them. however, i find it very difficult to recommend them to anyone these days as the third and final book of the trilogy has still not been released - nor does it look like being released any time soon - despite it being well over six years since the second part was released. to recommend this series right now feels like recommending a book which you know to have the last five chapters torn out. when/if rothfuss finally concludes the story then i would wholeheartedly recommend it to any fan of the fantasy genre.
8/10 (2017-09-19)







shereef from egypt
i'm honestly amazing at some of the low reviews given here. criticism of the decisions of kvothe such as focus why he did certain things and forgetting that he was still at a young age when most of this story started. it is an enjoyable story, focusing on a brilliant but rash child who loses his parents suddenly. the pace of the story is slow to start but once you read through what i assume if the setup of the plotline you can't leave the book. i have already read the second book which is even better and can hardly wait for the third and final with high expectations.
9/10 (2017-08-28)







jacob from usa
a beautiful modern fantasy novel written from the perspective of an unreliable narrator. to those who read the low reviews that use the complaint that kvothe is too good at everything, know that these people have missed the point of the books. we are watching a man set up his own myth in his lifetime, a talented man no doubt, but a prideful liar as well. kvothe thinks all women want him, that he is the center of the universe and his storytelling reflects this. the beautiful irony is that one of his main struggles is unearthing true information from old stories where others have done the same. this is a fantasy tale for the ages, a story about stories and those who tell them.
10/10 (2017-08-25)







rahul from united states
reading the previous reviews it seems either people really like it or dislike the book. i can see both opinions as really valid. there is way too much exposition in this book, nothing seems to happen, it as if you were reading a song of fire and ice, and you had to read every page with a detailed description of the food. for some reason though, the story was interesting enough that i wanted to finish the novel. the author definitely makes you curious what kvothe 's deal is. how does he become the superhero and what he does with it? there doesn't seem to be any really complicated problem he ever really faces, besides the beginning of the book. as everyone has said kovethe, is capable of doing everything, i guess that is his knack. the side-characters are alright, the most interesting one is probably "ben" and he is only there for a bit. if you like fantasy books and autobiographical styles, this could entertain you? if you like fantasy books with more complexity and a more interesting world, i suggest you skip it.
6/10 (2017-07-07)







dave from uk
excellent. i am actually truly amazed at some of the reviews on here, calling into question rothfuss' use of prose and language?! he is an excellent storyteller and his use of language is engaging, poetic, rhythmic and easy to soak in. the main character many people forget is a boy, an exceptional boy, who early on is established as a quick study who rarely repeats mistakes and has a wisdom that makes him seem older than he is. and he seems to have the best memory i'll grant that. so people who don't like that he excels at everything, i find only half true, he excels at things he puts his sharp mind to, but he still only has the understanding of an adolescent, and the temper too, both of which are key realistic character traits, recurring throughout the story. the first book reminded me of the harry potter series, except where the magic actually makes sense as it has 'scientific-esque' theory behind it (which the lack of magic and societal explanation and overdose of 'convenience' was my biggest bug bear of the potter series). i for one could not put these books down, i laughed out loud many times at characters being themselves and coming fools of situations, and it does use many storytelling stereotypes (like girls falling for him, him being the best (almost like being 'the one') but the story is so fluidly and believably told, you don't really realise until you look back. utterly refreshing and i cannot praise these books enough.
10/10 (2017-06-03)







bobby, all the way from ireland
an amazing book, and everyone who says they can't relate to the characters, or that they are dull just lack the imagination required to truly read the story, and not just look at the words on the page.
10/10 (2017-02-08)







xander from sweden
awesome book with great insight into the characters life. couldn't put it down.
10/10 (2016-02-16)







jameson from england
really spectacular book. if you love fantasy (or just love great books in general) then this is a must read.
10/10 (2016-02-16)







vanessa from us
this is such a great read, rothfuss really is a master of words. i've heard this book catch some flack for the less than realistic portrayal of kvothe. ignore the critics. anyone who thinks of kvothe as being shallow and to perfect clearly hasn't looked far past the surface. the book is a tragedy at heart, and rothfuss is slowly building up to that downward turn. engaging read.
10/10 (2016-02-15)







trevor from us
i'll try to keep this brief. patrick rothfuss is a genius. the world and the characters he creates are completely fleshed out, and the prose is magnificent. this is easily one of the best, most absorbing books i've ever read, and it's absolutely astounding to me that this is a debut novel. nothing more needs to be said. that's it. if you like fantasy go pick up a copy, and read it right now.
10/10 (2016-02-15)







natures way glass from usa
firstly, as continuously written throughout the reviews (regardless of rating), pat's elegant writing compliments the story superbly. it was written numerous times in other reviews that the character lacked depth, was the "sh*t" at "everything," or no emotional connection existed. for these people, and mind you they have their right to feel how they feel, but for these people, i feel tremendously sorry. they clearly lack the emotional depth and intellectual thought required to fully grasp what mr. rothfuss has done here. this story has a centralized character from which it extends. if you desire 30 point-of-view characters (which works very well for certain storylines ~ grrm is phenomenal) then this would not be the read for you, at this moment in time. nonetheless, i would still compel you to read this story...someday. whether tomorrow, next year, or in 20, you must experience what kvothe has to offer. frankly, it balances far better than most novels. many attempt to instigate emotion in the reader whilst a major arc occurs, and unfortunately many fail miserably. this story, which revolves around one man (and his supporting cast mixed throughout), envelopes the reader in his love, his loss, his pain, and overall his passion for the answers he seeks. his drive, though motivated partially by revenge and partially due to his inquisitiveness, will carry the reader from the beginning to the end. if you've ever loved, ever lost, ever suffered, ever smiled, ever felt something stronger and deeper than "cool story bro," then you must read this book. it's a story of a man, not a glamour show of an army, of a king, or of a country. it's the reality of his world, the severe loss he suffered, and how he manages to survive and overcome it. and simply put, it significantly touches on relevant tribulations in our own lives today. give it a chance, and you will not regret it. cheers.
10/10 (2016-02-07)







xavier from vienna
this was one of the best fantasy books i've read in recent times. it made me a smile a great deal while reading, so well was it written. it shared elements with many of the books i have enjoyed most: tolkien's the lord of the rings, hobb's the realm of the elderlings and le guin's earthsea saga. after the first 300 pages (about halfway) i would have given the book 10 out of 10 but the standard dropped a wee bit, and although the book was still good i felt it lacked the wonder of what had preceded. thankfully the denouement closed everything off masterfully in an enthralling finale and i look forward to reading wise man's fear.
9/10 (2016-01-31)







darinka from uk
great book! one of the best i have ever read. i look forward to the third day!
10/10 (2015-06-18)







troy from usa
i wanted to say first that this book was well written. it's an easy ready with many different interesting events. there is a lot of creativity that is involved, and often it kept me reading. though these are huge pluses when i read this book, there are many events in the book that made me roll my eyes repeatidly. the main character, kvothe, seems ridiculous as he is able to do anything. basically rothfuss made this character seem like a god who can do anything, has many jealous of his intelligent, and has many women wanting him. 
6/10 (2013-02-08)







yasmin from netherlands
i love both books!
can't wait for the third one :)
but i have to say that the bar is pretty high now...
difficult to like other books..:p 
10/10 (2012-10-14)







kael from canada
this book is amazing; as some have mentioned, it draws you in. specially for those who have gone through tougher times, or less than ideal circumstances, who may be able to relate to kvothe's pain and poverty; it really engages and enthralls you. those people that get tired of kvothe alluding to the fact that he's poor have probably never gone through similar circumstances. all i got to say on that.
10/10 (2012-08-23)







cedric from netherlands
amazing book, but sometimes repetetive. there are so many things in the books which aren't being written but you have to figure out yourself if you can, but does not matter much if you cannot. great read for everyone!
9/10 (2012-08-10)







james from canada
how often do you find a story that is most likely going to be a tragedy so entertaining. it's also rare to have such a personal and intimate connection with the protagonist as the reader has with kvothe. the writing was poetic and flowed so well even a dull section of the book (a rarity!) feels smooth. kvothe's interaction with everyone around him was wonderful and even minor characters seem fully developed and important to the plot. a unique take on magic, heroism, fantasy writing and a must read for anyone who likes reading.
10/10 (2012-07-14)







kathleen
i have to say i really liked this book. i read it a few years ago, and just keep coming back to it. i really like the way that his story is told, and trying to understand how kvothe went from the boy he was to the man he is in the book's present. i can understand why there are those that feel that the book isn't very good, but i think that for the first book in a trilogy it is very good. it sets up so many things for the next books, and i really love the writing. read the book out loud, and you'll find that there are some beautiful phrases and placement of words, as if someone used to telling stories really is telling the story. anyway, i think it's a book that can be enjoyed by many people.
8/10 (2012-05-17)







cj twice from atlanta
wow - i can't imagine anyone saying this series is no good. dude [rothfuss] is a frigging fantasy wizard, and both this and book two are full of little clues and puzzles (he actually gives the ultra fan something to do while waiting for the next book). ge-ni-ous!!! i can't wait for 'the doors of stone" - btw all my guessing had me guessing this title only refers to the two lackless doors at the lackless estates and within the university archives. upon further review, i believe the gray stones have to be included in that. remember the folklore surrounding them 'they mark old roads/safe places' according to kvothe, but simon believes they bad things. older cultures, who would understand them proper, would probably see them as a good thing [a way of escape from trouble], while those who don't understand them completely would only see them as dangerous, because they probably have learned to associate them with appearances by fay creatures. remember, falurian suggests there are many doors to move between the mortal an fayan realms for those who know how. i'd be willing to bet that both the university and lackless estate are build on/around these stones [ we already know that one of these stones exists at the bridge near the university. that door in the archives must somehow lock this passageway. furthermore one of those two doors [lackless or university] must be locking away alaxle 'lax' the most powerful of the shapers (the one who stole the moon).
10/10 (2012-05-08)







jan from antwerp, belgium
i must say this was a very good book. but if i were to give word to one of the flaws in this book, it is that the main character - that is supposed to be a very smart guy - does really stupid things on many occasions. still, worth reading though!
7/10 (2012-03-27)







antoine from canada
like many read this on a whim. literally by the time you finish the first page - which was beautifully written - you ask yourself, how have i never heard of this before? 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







mira from new zealand
patrick rothfuss' is an incredible writer - these are the best books (fantasy or otherwise) i have read in a long long time. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







javier from spain
nice storytelling, that's it. i love this book, it is absorbent, easy to read, but at the end it seems to me like an empty book. it is an extensive intro that could be summarized in less than half of the book length.
7/10 (2012-03-01)







ashton from australia
this is a fantastic novel. allowing you to escape from your own world for a while is what a fictional novel is, but rothfuss has taken this to a whole new level as the name of the wind actually draws you in to the book. i laughed and cried with the main character which is something that most authors can only hope to achieve. this novel really is where the ordinary becomes extrordinary and the impossible becomes possible.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







dan from london
one of the best fantasy novels in decades. engaging characters and a compelling plot. all those i have recommended it to have loved it. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







arham from pakistan
one of my favorites as a young teen. really pulls your heart.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







tom from ohio
this is the kind of book you will read more than once. great writing and a lead character that will stick with you.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







james from boston
a passionate, delightful book in every way. perhaps not as technically polished as martin or hobb, but their equal for imagination and characterization. more than that, this is just a book that feels good to read on a snowy evening, fantasy in the old sense, a book that will envelop you and let you escape into a world that's just legendary enough to leave you craving more at the last page.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







jan from germany
i have read it in 2 languages more than 8 times.
definitely my favorite.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







peter from netherlands
best book ever! couldn't put it away after the first 50 pages. my all time favourite!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







naru from indonesia
i truly enjoyed this book, it is amazing. the plot keeps going on without ever failing to make me picture itself. simply put, i couldn't stop myself reading this book until i finished it, and now that i did, i can't stop waiting and wanting the second book. buy it, read it, you won't regret it.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







daniel from tempe, az
i honestly come to a loss for words. all i can say is anyone who can even slightly enjoy a fantasy needs to read this book because it truly is fantastic. by page 100 i knew this book would instantly become one of my all time fav's. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







marie from kuala lumpur, malaysia
the language. the main character. the plot. what can i say? to understand the hype, you have to read the book. i've been promoting this book shamelessly among my friends and family. this book has everything you could possibly want: romance, scientific facts, amazingly beautiful writing, magic... and, apparently, in the next book: sex. buy this book. you won't regret it.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







leonie from cumbria, uk
i bought this book on a whim, and i'm glad i did. the storytelling is absolutely effortless, and continues to engage you from start to finish. for a first book, it's as good as you can get, i only hope that the sequel can achieve as much.
i read it cover to cover in under a day and then read it again, the only reason i gave it a 9/10 rating is so the sequel can get a 10/10 if it's better!
9/10 (2012-03-01)







henry from fitchburg
well i gave it a 8 because this is my first fantasy book i have ever read. all i've got to say is wow, this book keep my interested all the way through. there wasn't much in the way of epic battles or anything like that, but it was a well writtten story. can't wait for the next book to come out.
8/10 (2012-03-01)







preita from california, usa
i think this book is just about as close to a 10 star rating as you can get. it's the first book that actually made me cry for the character. the writing is fluid and beautiful and though the story is a little tragic i can't wait for more.
9/10 (2012-03-01)









9.5/10 from 59 reviews

all patrick rothfuss reviews

the thing beneath the bed (the adventure of the princess and mr. whiffle)
the kingkiller chronicle (the kingkiller chronicle)
the slow regard of silent things (the kingkiller chronicle)
the name of the wind (the kingkiller chronicle: book 1)
the wise man's fear (the kingkiller chronicle: book 2)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the lies of locke lamora by scott lynch
(the gentleman bastard sequence: book 1)





when an author decides to interweave multiple stories together into a larger story, a lot of talent is needed to back up such an ambition. some authors pull it off with an ease that leaves you breathless, and staggered at how – several books later – everything is tied up neatly. other authors leave you giddy with confusion.american born author scott lynch, in his book ‘the lies of locke lamora,’ manages to adeptly weave the past and the present (or the present and the future) into a compelling and adventure filled romp.set in a world styled heavily after medieval venice. mob style crime lords run the real city while the nobility ignore the majority of what goes on below. canals separate the city of camorr into over a dozen islands, each with their own style, population, haunts and stereotypes. lynch has a flare for detail and description, and though this can sometimes lead to excessive detailing, the picture he paints for those willing to read through the walls of text that sometimes creep up are beautiful.the story itself focuses primarily on one locke lamora, once orphan boy now criminal mastermind in the style of danny ocean (from ocean’s 11). lynch swaps us – using chapters and interludes to time jump us – from locke’s formative years as a petty thief and his education into the master criminal he would become to the criminal he became, in the middle of his crews most daring job.but life is not so easy for the gentleman bastard’s, as lamora’s crew is named. amidst conning the nobility, keeping it a secret from everyone including their boss and the law, camorr falls under the influence of the gray king, who may be the only man in camorr who can take on locke.several minor flaws make appearances throughout the book however, that ever so marginally took me out of the book and into my editorial mindset.for the majority of the book the perspective is set stoically behind the eyes of locke lamora. however, for whatever reason, lynch occasionally swaps it out for a chapter (or less) simply to impart a small piece of information. one can’t help but consider other authors who have made do with a book entirely from the characters first person perspective who managed to impart all the necessary information and keep the perspective in check (robin hobb, for example). it seems at times as if the author has taken the easy way out, or simply placed an ad break in to keep the reader sweating for a few more pages.another frustration that seemed to riddle the book was the almost obsessive use of “swear” words. though not against so called “obscene language” myself, the frequency with which it was used seemed to mirror that of a teenager attempting to make himself look cool in front of his peers by saying “fuck” as much as humanly possible. if life is against you, then fine, swear away; but i happen to know for certain that there are other words in the english language to express ones displeasure.those few things aside though, the lies of locke lamora made for a spellbinding story. locke is a character that you love, despite his foibles, and the deaths that take place leave a heart wrenching impact upon you, not the least of which is the suddenness and simple brutality by which they took place.filled with thievery goodness, hilarious turns of phrase and description, and some truly harebrained schemes, the lies of locke lamora belongs on any fantasy fans bookshelf. you’ll laugh, you might cry, but i can damn well guarantee you’ll have a lot of fun as well!8/10 the lies of locke lamora makes for a spellbinding story.


buy on amazon

review by joshua s hill
7 positive reader review(s) for the lies of locke lamora
18 positive reader review(s) in total for the the gentleman bastard sequence series







the lies of locke lamora reader reviews

cory from usa
this book was a great read, i just wish he wrapped it up better and did not write another. his style is mean't for one book. do not read the next two they do not develop the characters.
8/10 (2017-07-26)







alan from australia
i listened to this as an audiobook. i loved the vivid way the authored worded the story. it seemed very well written to me and the characters were interesting. the plots are complicated and there is always something happening. violence can be graphic but the main characters are unsavoury guys dealing in nasty business. to avoid the seedier parts of their world would be a dishonest story. i love the series and am working my way through the sequels
10/10 (2017-01-19)







anita from uk
i loved this book. it was full of suspense, intrigue and brilliant story telling. although violent in parts and with some swearing i still thought it was a worthwhile great read. i also thought the flashbacks to how the locke and his friends got to where they were and developed under chains was a different aspect to the book and broke up the action. it all linked in perfectly. anita (anitasbookbag.co.uk)
9/10 (2014-09-13)







chris from preston, uk
i loved this book, the pace crackled along faster than any blockbuster i've seen, the characters were relatable, and the twists were sharp without feeling forced or shoehorned. a must read, i can't believe this book only 7.8, at least a high 8 minimum, its 10/10 for me :)
10/10 (2012-03-01)







tom from ohio
my opinion is the polar opposite of kokor's. i found it original and fast paced although i didn't like the next book nearly as much.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







ryan from canberra, australia
this was one of the best books i read in 2008. i love a good heist story and to see it delivered as part of a dark fantasy world really blew me away. it was an original take on the fantasy genre and i had a lot of fun reading this book.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







danny from leicester
at last a book to reinstate my love of fantasy literature. no need for dragons or elves, the skill of the writer is to invoke a world far enough removed from our own and yet with people we can imagine as real. the fantasy setting is wonderfully evocative and the violence, though sometimes extreme, is written to bring to life the struggle of the characters, and not just for gratuitous gore. a rating of 9 was awarded.
9/10 (2012-03-01)









9.2/10 from 8 reviews

all scott lynch reviews

the gentleman bastard sequence (the gentleman bastard sequence)
the lies of locke lamora (the gentleman bastard sequence: book 1)
red seas under red skies (the gentleman bastard sequence: book 2)
the republic of thieves (the gentleman bastard sequence: book 3)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




american gods by neil gaiman






in what is one of his most celebrated works, up there along with sandman, neil gaiman’s american gods is one of the best books of its genre. the real dilemma presented us however is understanding just which genre gaiman was writing. this is not a negative opinion of his writing ability, suggesting that he doesn’t seem to have any idea what he is doing. just the contrary, american gods manages to broach several genre barriers all the while making it look as if gaiman was creating his own genre.the end result is very much like creating a new species of rose; you take those qualities from other roses that you want, and then splice (is that the right term, or have i gone down a more frankenstein’s monster route?) them all together. the process may not be all that pleasant, but the outcome is beautiful.wikipedia, my source for all things, describes the novel as “a blend of americana, fantasy, and various strands of ancient and modern mythology.” of those three, i was already a fan of the latter two (i’m combining mythologies into one), but even having loved american gods i can’t say that i’m anymore a fan of americana than i was when i started.the story follows the “mysterious and taciturn protagonist” (wikipedia again), shadow, who starts out a prisoner coming up on his last days in prison. however shadow is released a few days earlier, due to the untimely death of his wife, laura. on the flight back home he meets a man, mr. wednesday, who shows not only too much interest in shadow, but too much knowledge to be comfortable.wednesday came out of a room down the hall, and beckoned to shadow.“how was the funeral?” he asked.“it’s over,” said shadow.“you don’t want to talk about it?”“no,” said shadow.good.” wednesday grinned. “too much talking these days. talk talk talk. this country would get along much better if people learned how to suffer in silence."from: american gods by neil gaimanwhat comes next, after shadow accepts a job from wednesday to be his bodyguard and all around odd-jobs man, is a variety of cross-country trips. we quickly get the sense that wednesday is more than he seems, and shadow’s unfortunate lack of knowledge seems to be winding him up in a lot of trouble.over the course of the book, shadow is introduced to a variety of wednesday’s friends, associates and, for lack of a better term, enemies. gaiman does a commendable job of creating a mythology for america which, like australia, is a country based upon the fragments of others. and so, naturally, fragments of old gods live across the us. add to that a mix of american folk heroes like johnny appleseed, along with some new gods that the americans have cooked up, manifestations of modern life and technology like the internet, tv, etc.the entire plot, not unsurprisingly, is left hinging on shadow; the choices he has made and the choices he is left to make. and while things don’t come to resolution until the battle is won, there are points where you just wish you could be left alone with shadow, and the small community of lakeside.shadow shut the front door. the room was freezing. it smelled of people who had gone away to live other lives, and of all they had eaten and dreamed. he found the thermostat and cranked it up to seventy degrees. he went into the tiny kitchen, checked the drawers, opened the avocado-colored refrigerator, but it was empty. no surprise there. at least the fridge smelled clean inside, not musty.from: american gods by neil gaimanbeing born an englishman, and by englishman i mean a “man” born in “england”, gaiman shows a surprising and unerring ability to describe america as if he had not only been brought up there, but had somehow been part of the scenery for a long time. the descriptions of locales all across the country give you the sense that, for a period of time, gaiman did nothing but drive across the us, occasionally peering into people’s houses, site-seeing and generally attempting to memorize the entire country.but even having that knowledge would have been nothing, without his almost unnatural ability to write. i imagine gaiman could write a book about the effects of frostbite and i would still be fascinated, drawn in by his spellbinding and almost magical descriptions.if you are a fan of either of the three categories, a fan of literature, america, or even a fan of zombies (what’s a dead wife if she can’t come back to visit, eh?), american gods by neil gaiman is for you. and though i can only award it 8 out of 10, it isn’t for lack of trying. it is simply that other things came before it which scored better, and i’m now stuck in a perpetual ratings loop.9/10 i imagine gaiman could write a book about the effects of frostbite and i would still be fascinated.


buy on amazon

review by joshua s hill
2 positive reader review(s) for american gods







american gods reader reviews

rapha�l from france
this trip was delightful and surprising. gaiman shows a real talent to narrate impressionistic scenes and dares to take weird turns. strongly recommended.
8/10 (2016-01-19)







xavier from vienna
neil gaiman has long been on my list of must-read-soon authors. and so following on from reading the graveyard book, which gets better and better which each read, i moved onto another of the author's well-know works, american gods. the first third of the book was okay, the story was interesting enough and the writing skilful enough to keep me interested, but it was not that something special that i had hoped for. however, once past the opening the final two-thirds are very, very good, with the protagonist's say in lakeside being an excellent story-within-a-story that reminded me strongly of stephen king (who says very nice things about gaiman on the book's front cover). i personally don't think that american gods showcases the very best of gaiman in that i found it a little clunky and a little too unbelievable (yes, i know this is fiction but still...) in parts to allow for complete captivation. but it is a book that is a very rewarding read, a book that improves as it progresses and a book that should be recommended to those with an interest in american history, and in particular those with an interest in the gods that have been created by the world's peoples over thousands of years. 8.7/10 would be my exact score, which i have rounded up to 9 for this review :)
9/10 (2012-06-18)









8.7/10 from 3 reviews

all neil gaiman reviews

neverwhere 
marvel 1602 
interworld (interworld #1)
american gods 
the graveyard book 
the ocean at the end of the lane 
the sandman vol 1: preludes and nocturnes 
norse mythology 
stardust 
the ocean at the end of the lane illustrated edition 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the fifth season by nk jemisin
(the broken earth: book 1)





when we say “the world has ended,” it’s usually a lie, because the planet is just fine. but this is the way the world ends. this is the way the world ends. this is the way the world ends. for the last time.i had known about n.k. jemisin’s the hundred thousand kingdoms for quite some time except i just couldn’t bring myself to read it. i don’t know why i decided to read her newest book, the fifth season, though i’m glad i did. i’m not a fan of tragedies, and this book is a great big mass of tragedy, so much so that i wonder if there will ever be a happily ever after, but oh well, it’s still interesting. the book simultaneously traverses across three timelines. in the beginning you think that these three are different people, but later realise that they are, all three of them, the same person at different ages.i won’t say that i really like her characters (sometimes i do), they’re sort of hard to connect with. they’re also somewhat distant though i do sympathise with them. they have, from the beginning of their lives, been brutalized emotionally, manipulated and controlled. the orogenes, people who can control how the plates of the earth shift, creating or stopping earthquakes, are despised and feared. the main character, who we first know only as essun is an orogene. she comes home to find her son beaten to death by her husband and her daughter missing along with the husband. this is her journey.the novel is not exactly beautiful, more like brutal and painful, like their world itself but i will also say that never once, was it ever boring.10/10 not exactly beautiful, more like brutal and painful, like their world itself


buy on amazon

review by neha agarwal
1 positive reader review(s) for the fifth season
1 positive reader review(s) in total for the the broken earth series








the fifth season reader reviews

rob from australia
a very interesting world building, marred by one dimensional characters that it is hard to feel any sympathy for. the main women - actually, it seems, just one woman at different stages of her life - do anger well, but that's about all. they are also dumb, never questioning what's going on. while it is politically progressive, that is not enough. the cruelty and abuse are unremitting.
6/10 (2020-02-19)









7.8/10 from 2 reviews

all nk jemisin reviews

dreamblood duology (dreamblood duology)
the killing moon (dreamblood duology: book 1)
the shadowed sun (dreamblood duology: book 2)
the fifth season (the broken earth: book 1)
the obelisk gate (the broken earth: book 2)
the stone sky (the broken earth: book 3)
the inheritance trilogy (the inheritance trilogy)
the hundred thousand kingdoms (the inheritance trilogy: book 1)
the broken kingdoms (the inheritance trilogy: book 2)
the kingdom of gods (the inheritance trilogy: book 3)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the earthsea quartet by ursula le guin
(earthsea saga: book 1 - 4)





the earthsea quartet brings together ursula le guin’s four legendary earthsea sagas for the first time in a single volume. the novels belong to the high fantasy genre and follow a young boy from the discovery of his magecraft through to him becoming the greatest mage of all time. the four books are: a wizard of earthsea, the tombs of atuan, the farthest shore and tehanu.the books, first published in the late 1960’s, are written in a simple, free-flowing style and i quickly fell under their charm. although this is a book that can be read and enjoyed by children and adults, its themes are far more adult than say, the chronicles of narnia or the harry potter series.the book’s narrative keeps you intrigued although i must admit that i found the opening chapters of the tombs of atuan rather hard going. this was due mainly to the in-depth descriptions of arha’s visits to the undertomb and the labyrinth. there is a strong taoist element running through the book, especially in regard to the “balance” of magic. you might even say that newton’s second law, “to every action there is an equal but opposite reaction” would also apply here.ged, the young boy who becomes a mage is central to all four sagas and his choices dictate the stories direction. one such key moment occurs early in his training, shortly after he has been taken under the wing of ogion, his mentor and friend. ged has become frustrated with his perceived lack of progress and ogion offers him these following words of wisdom."you did not come to me, but i to you. you are very, very young to make this choice, but i cannot make it for you. if you wish, i will send you to roke island, where all high arts are taught. any craft you undertake to learn you will learn, for your power is great. greater even than your pride, i hope. i would keep you here with me, for what i have is what you lack, but i will not keep you against your will. now choose between re alibi and roke." a wizard of earthsea: the shadowged faces many battles during his life but it is the battle within himself that stands out in the book. ursula le guin shows that the demons that are inside us all should be accepted and battled rather than ignored or denied. it is by facing these demons and overcoming them that we can truly become the person that we would all like to be. there is no way to go through life without making mistakes and having regrets, it is the way in which we deal with these moments that makes us into the people we are. put simply, none of us are, or ever will be perfect. it is how we are able to deal with our imperfections that matters."in our minds, lad. in our minds. the traitor, the self, the self that cries i want to live, let the world rot so long as i can live! the little traitor soul in us, in the dark, like a spider in a box. he talks to all of us. but only some understand him. the wizards, the singers, the makers. and the heroes, the ones who seek to be themselves. to be oneself is a rare thing, and a great one. to be oneself forever, is that not greater still?" the farthest shore: orm embarursula le guin has a reputation for exploring psychological and sociological themes within her books and this collection of books is no different. these novels can be read by children and enjoyed from the perspective of magic, wizards, adventure and the beautifully imagined world of earthsea. they can also be appreciated by adults for the thought-provoking elements that the book conjures. this is a collection that makes you think and leaves you thinking.10/10 stunning, thought-provoking fantasy.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
15 positive reader review(s) for the earthsea quartet
37 positive reader review(s) in total for the earthsea saga series







the earthsea quartet reader reviews

a young fantasy reader from a rather nice place in my opinion
although i read it a while ago now, i liked it very much, though i agree that there were parts which needed to be read for the advancement of the plot rather than what was actually taking place, if you know what i mean. my father ( i think) first gave it to me to read to get me to read something else other than the lord of the rings and harry potter ( two book series i still hold close to my heart) and i must say it did the trick! not overly focused on bloody gory action, something which i personally find quite boring, it embodied more philosophical ideas and the language whisked me off the distant islands of the archipelago. i still have the phrase 'as far away as selidor' stuck in my head along with other phrases, it is so eloquent! good for children and adults alike, a good read, i'd completely recommend it.
10/10 (2018-01-07)







sam from us
the earthsea books have always held a special place in my heart. i first read them decades ago and they are truly timeless. some books from the same era have not aged well but the earthsea saga has aged like a very fine wine. all four books explore human behaviour and never come across as judgemental, instead encouraging the reader to form their own opinions. i liked harry potter and am delighted my children are reading those books. but i secretly hope they will read le guin's quartet and love it every bit as much, ideally even more. a must read for children who relish thoughtful fantasy.
10/10 (2016-01-07)







samihah from usa
it's an epic fantasy. there's a whole lot of world building, and requires a lot of thought. but once you get past that, the pretentious language and sentence structure, and some of the adult themes, this book actually has an enjoyable story line and meaning. but don't try to read it all too fast - it'll make your head hurt. :) this books was written masterfully.
9/10 (2014-03-25)







liam  from australia
the wisdom and the quiet ancient beauty of these books grow every time i reread them.
10/10 (2012-09-07)







shell from winchester
classics - stand the test of time.
8/10 (2012-03-01)







tomasz from poland
the earthsea quartet shows lofty dignity and appears pretentiously grand in language, thought and generality. however, i feel perhaps the authors imaginativity runs short, barely managing to make a strenuous effort to recover itself - and only does so to finish what has already been started.
7/10 (2012-03-01)







lieke from the netherlands
my father read this book when he was 17, now i am reading it and i love it! it's better than harry potter, believe me. this is not about a magic sticks, but 'true names'. it's something different and better. it is stunning, exciting and very good. i'm a fan!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







lieke from the netherlands
my father read this book when he was 17, now i am reading it and i love it! it's better than harry potter, believe me. this is not about a magic sticks, but 'true names'. it's something different and better. it is stunning, exciting and very good. i'm a fan!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







trey from oxford
le guin is a writer for whom tolkien himself would have had much respect. her use of "true names" continues the legacy of what magic truly is, knowing and understanding, and recognizing that power is inherent in this knowledge. it reflects the concept of what the word "spell" represents. not only is her construction of this world deserving of praise, but her writing and depiction of characters struggling with the timeless themes of mortality, love, and fear are nigh on matchless.
"despair speaks evenly, in a quiet voice." - tehanu 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







wendy from australia
at the age of 15 i have recently read the series and i find the books enjoyable and a good read. i would recommend this series to anyone. perhaps it is because of my personal taste but i prefer series that focus on the journey of the protagonist while introducing other characters through the view of this protagonist. anyhows that is my opinion and should not stop anyone reading this.
8/10 (2012-03-01)







zeb from england
i read these as a child and am re reading them now as i do from time to time. the language is spare and beautiful and the stories have something to offer your heart at many stages of your life. a fantasy world that feels as if it is part of your soul is a rare thing indeed and this is what u k le guin has created in my life.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







estel from lucknow, india
the earthsea quartet is a must read for every fantasy fan. le guin's sparse beauty of language, piquant descriptions which almost makes you feel the salty tang of sea and dynamic characterization with a deeply moralistic story to the core, leaves the reader spellbound. the level of introspection reaches its culmination in tehanu which is more of a study of social interaction and emotional resonance, which quite a few of you wouldn't like. but overall, the series is highly recommended.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







robin from dorset
these are spell-binding books, each as good as the other. the thing i like about them most is the way in which we follow the main characters, ged and tenar all the way from childhood to old age, it really feels like you have lived their lives with them. if you love fantasy, you must read these 4 books and the other wind.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







sian from pembroke
this is a wonderful series of books, all subtly different and tehanu, which some think of as a weakness is the best of them all. the earthsea books are suitable for ages 12 up to 120 and it doesn't matter whether you are male or female, these books have something to offer everyone.
the meaning of life and the human fear of death are the themes that run strongest through the books and this is done through characters that are simply perfect and in ged and tenar we are able to watch them go from young and unsure children into the wise adults.
if you enjoy reading fantasy then you must read these books, they will stay with you for the rest of your life.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







george from gateshead
this is what a fantasy series should be all about, one that makes you think rather than thinking for you. forget harry potter, it's weak compared to this.
some people think that tehanu is a weak point in the series, they're wrong, it's told in a different way that's all and with far less action and focuses more on the character's, it was exactly what was needed at the stage in the series.
ursula le guin is a master story-teller, she entertains you and makes you think at the same time, she would have made a good teacher.
10/10 (2012-03-01)









9.5/10 from 16 reviews

all ursula le guin reviews

gifts (annals of the western shore: book 1)
earthsea saga (earthsea saga)
the earthsea quartet (earthsea saga: book 1 - 4)
the other wind (earthsea saga: book 5)
tales from earthsea (earthsea saga: book 6)
the lathe of heaven 
the left hand of darkness 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




assassin's apprentice by robin hobb
(the farseer trilogy: book 1)





the farseer trilogy is a recommended fantasy series.assassin's apprentice by robin hobb is the first book in her acclaimed work, the farseer trilogy. first published in 1995, and followed by royal assassin and assassin's quest, the trilogy has been described as combining the magic of ursula le guin's earthsea with j.r.r. tolkien's the lord of the rings.the story follows a young six year old boy and his life and times once he is handed over into the care of his biological father, a royal prince. the young boy, who becomes known as fitz, has a difficult life due to the fact that he is a royal bastard."'chivalry's' the old man said, and he was already turning his back on me, taking his measured steps down the flag-stoned pathway. 'prince chivalry' he said, not turning back as he added the qualifier. 'him what's king-in-waiting. that's who got him. so let him do for him, and be glad he managed to father one child, somewhere.'"assassin's apprentice: the earliest historyhe is taken under the wing of buckkeep's master of animals, burrich, and it is while working for burrich that his discovers he also has many other skills that ordinary boys do not possess.the kingdom is under threat from raiders who leave their victims devoid of any human emotions. the king is hard pressed and uses everything at his disposable to protect his country. fitz, after a chance meeting with the king begins his assassin training and as he grows he must face peril, hardship and ever more difficult missions.this tale is told using a first-person narrative, beginning as fitz sits down and recounts his memoirs (he is now a much older man). this narrative is intense and highly enjoyable, worth reading for the author's skill with words alone. there are genuinely moving moments and you are always hoping that fitz's life will become happier.i would highly recommend assassin's apprentice and the farseer trilogy. as you read you become ever more immersed in the story and it just seems to get better and better.here's what others say:"refreshingly original" jenny wurts"i couldn't put this novel down" starburst9/10 an enjoyable and rewarding beginning to a promising trilogy.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
28 positive reader review(s) for assassin's apprentice
68 positive reader review(s) in total for the the farseer trilogy series







assassin's apprentice reader reviews

matthew from united kingdom
the best fantasy series ever written, bar none. if you like this, chances are you will absolutely love it. the depth and believability of the world is staggering.
10/10 (2021-03-05)







susan  from canada
i found assassin's apprentice and the next 2 or 3 books in the series at a book sale. i was surprised to find a number of the same author at this small sale. as i enjoy fantasy and had never heard of robin hobb, and as the price was well book sale price, i bought them all. what a surprise when i started reading book 1, entertaining, enjoyable and well worth the read. i finished the other books in the series that i had bought and quickly began purchasing and reading the rest of the books in the series. i must say robin hobb has become one of my favourite authors and assassin's apprentice and the rest of the series my favourite as well. the characters, especially fitz, are believable and you feel what they are going through, their pain and suffering and moments of happiness. this is a series that you can easily loose yourself in and continue reading, until the series is done.
9/10 (2021-01-14)







wes acumen  from usa
when i first read assassin's apprentice, i immediately fell in love with it's prose, more beautiful than anything i've read before or since. i was entranced, fully invested from page 1. i knew within a few chapters that robin hobb was my new favorite author. her prose and amazing characters kept me smiling and turning the pages, even during parts where nothing important was happening plot-wise. it's one of the best fantasy books i've ever read. robin hobb is a genius. when you finish one of her books, you hunger for the next. i couldn't recommend this enough. a must read!
10/10 (2021-01-13)







agathe from france
her characters are complexe and believable, the motivations are clearly explained so each character is utterly believable. they love they lose and they grieve so it is a rare book where the characters mature over time rather than stay in a rigid format. this is a rare author who gives life to her characters all of them (and there are many different characters) all different and all believable. her plots are complicated and full of adventure but i love the feeling you have of knowing the characters and years later i will randomly think of a scene of her books, they become part of the reader. her world is totally believable and one of the best series around. the farseer chronicles are my favorite.
10/10 (2020-10-17)







wayne jenkins  from usa
immersive, enthralling, a pure joy to read. the best character author i know of after reading 200+ books a year of 51 years. a scene (much later in the series) is the best, most moving, emotional scene i have ever read. if most excellent books are a 7 or 8, then this book and series deserves the very rare 10. a book to start on a rainy weekend.
10/10 (2020-09-27)







kieran from australia
hobb delivers a masterpiece in storytelling with this first novel of the farseer trilogy. a tale of bastards, beasts, and betrayal featuring some of the most compelling character development in fantasy writing. not to be missed by any reader who has more than a passing fancy in the fantasy genre.
10/10 (2020-08-24)







renee  from united states
robin hobb is an incredible author! i just flew through her farseer trilogy and then onto fitz and the fool trilogy. her books are the type of you can’t put down because you need to know what happens and you don’t want the books to end because you feel the intense need to be with the characters you meet in her books. her wolf building and detail of what the characters experience is a really treat. i can’t believe it took me so long to hear about these books! i’m in my mid forties and just discovered them! robbin hobb is truly one of the great authors in fantasy writing. these trilogies go down in my top fantasy books of all times!
10/10 (2020-05-17)







laura from london
robin hobb is a wonderful author, and this is her best series. i adore it. the characters are so human, and over the course of the series you grow to love them like they're your friends. yes, it can get depressing, but everything has a narrative purpose; it isn't just gratuitous cruelty. i've read this many times, and hope to read it many more. beautifully written, wonderful characters, engaging story. everything good fantasy should be.
10/10 (2018-09-03)







bob from us
first page was a bit meh but as i read on the book drew me in and made me feel like i was that boy. this book was outstanding.
10/10 (2016-01-02)







jon from australia
this book could be the best book i have ever read. the good guy beats the bad guys and wins but he lost everything but his life. so cruel, but good to read.
10/10 (2015-09-28)







theresa from south africa
i adore this book. it gripped me by the throat from the beginning and didn't let go. i went on to read all the books in all the series more than once - highly, highly recommended - and i think this book is my favourite. perhaps it holds a special place in my heart because it was my introduction to this magnificent writer's work? write on robin hobb!
10/10 (2015-07-07)







tuesday from australia
the first page of this book is what made me keep reading the whole series. somehow the idea of a small child being swung along in a warm, steady hand in a wind swept, icy street, and the way it was written completely captured a child of that age and their curiosities and their odd way of perceiving the world. the author has a way of writing that i hardly ever see where everything she wrote seemed to have been planned ahead in complete detail. but the main character gets completely bashed up, everything goes wrong and although there are happy moments the author made his life very depressing. this is definitely a fantasy-lovers book and as others have said, not for the faint-hearted. this is one of those book series that is a beautiful piece of art but not a overly happy one.
8/10 (2013-07-11)







tyler from usa
i have read this series several times now and it has been the effort i went through to find copies in my town. i absolutely love this series. fitz, the main character, is suppressed in every way possible. he is hurt, then kicked while he is down, again and again. but the point of the story is that he continues on each time. he raises himself up again and again. it is true that this book can get depressing at times, but it is worth it to watch as fitz grows and becomes a exemplary man. i would recommend this series to anyone who enjoys fantasy.
10/10 (2013-03-14)







chris from australia
this book got me into reading again. i love the way i was able to feel for the characters. the ending was amazing. there were a few chapters which were slow paced and i wanted more to happen but the ending made it so worthwhile. i can't wait to finish reading the trilogy.
9/10 (2012-12-26)







graham brown from australia
there are some good ideas and characters, though some were introduced only to go nowhere, but i am guessing that they will be taken up again in the sequels. i found the protagonist sympathetic, but frustrating in the way he just lets everyone mistreat him without doing anything. and some of the adult characters close to him seem to neglect and reject him for no good reason other than to try to gain reader sympathy. i agree with another comment above that hobb builds up slowly to conflicts which then seem to fizzle out in a few paragraphs with an unsatisfactory conclusion. but generally a very readable book which sustained my interest.
7/10 (2012-07-23)







tessa from uk
came across this almost by accident, and was drawn into it at once. i found the setting appealing and the plot quite intriguing, although predictable at times, with an interesting set of characters.
7/10 (2012-07-04)







jo from germany
this is my absolute favorite book. there is no other book i loved (and still do) more than this. the characters are full of life and skillfully drawn, the story slow-paced - but so real in detail. nothing seems shallow, not one feeling described seems out of line. so much art in every line. i am grateful for hobb having created this work of art and i hope, she will continue publishing (though i didn't enjoy the liveship traders as much as the fitz-books).
10/10 (2012-06-15)







jonathan from maryland
this is perhaps the best series of books i have read. the characters are very real and not at all static. it is very easy to fall into this book and cheer at fitz's triumphs and gnash your teeth at his failures and setbacks. the books can be very sad or depressing, but the fact that there are huge setbacks and horrible truths make it more real and gritty. someone once said to me you cannot know how good things can be till you've seen how bad it was. persevere, the second trilogy especially sets things to rights and it feels good. i have read and reread this series many times, which i very rarely do and is the best recommendation i can offer.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







tim from new zealand
robin hobb is my favourite fantasy author and i think this is her best series. the writing creates a vivid world and her characters are believable.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







emily from mississippi, us
robin hobb, for me, sets the standard for what i expect out of fantasy. she makes an art out of digging a deeper and deeper hole for her poor main character. as someone else mentioned, the story can be depressing, but the series doesn't really bill itself as a peppy, happy thing to begin with. but for the complainers, approach this book as a trilogy of trilogies; it doesn't really end until fool's fate, when everything is finally made right. and even then, there's another growing trilogy coming along now! this is the kind of writing that you'll come back to over and over again, and will spoil you, like it has me, with its amazing craft and quality.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







patrick from glasgow,ky
there is "no way" this series is out of the top five. this series is a must read for fantasy readers!

10/10 (2012-03-01)







shell from winchester
the strength of this series lies in the combination of strong human characters and nighteyes - the kind of companion we all dreamt of as children and were only able to find in the pages of a book.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







melanie from glasgow
i've loved all robin hobb's books, apart from "the soldier son" series. i loved fitz, and really got into him as a character. while reading these books i totally escaped into the story, forgetting the real world for a while, which is the best compliment i can give. "the mad ship" books affected me this way as well. after borrowing the 1st book from the library, i went out to buy all her books so i could read them whenever i wanted. i haven't read the "dragon" books yet as i didn't know they existed, but i will be making a visit to waterstone's as soon as possible.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







al from new york, ny
robin hobb gives us a great escape: a detailed worldscape with terrific characters. this is probably my favorite "trilogy" of all robin hobb's books.
8/10 (2012-03-01)







daniel from essex
well written and easy to lose yourself in, these series of books are an emotional rolercoaster. i couldn't put these books down, i also would recommend the live ship series and the tawny man but unfortunatly i felt robin lost her way after that.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







rob from london
amazing first book for an amazing series. i've recommended this book to several people and all have gone on to read and enjoy the trilogy. definitely in my top 5 fantasy novels, do yourself a favour and read it.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







estel from lucknow
the farseer trilogy is a must read for any fantasy fan. the first person narrative is effective and engaging, i feel a lot of empathy for fitz. ms. hobb is an excellent wordsmith; the setting and the characters have been beautifully portrayed. she has definitely taken fantasy to a new horizon, devoid of any clich�s, with an engaging plot and a realistic cast of characters.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







natalie from cheshire
robin hobb is probably my favourite fantasy author and the farseer trilogy is probably my favourite series.
it's the characters that i like the best, fitz, burrich, regal, molly and verity are still as clear in my mind to me as they were when i was reading it a few years ago.
the bonus is that the books get better as they go along and give you the kind of ending you are hoping for, something that other series have failed to do and left me a bit disappointed.
8/10 (2012-03-01)









9.4/10 from 29 reviews

all robin hobb reviews

fool's assassin (fitz and the fool #1)
fool's quest (fitz and the fool #2)
assassin's fate (fitz and the fool #3)
the wilful princess and the piebald prince 
the farseer trilogy (the farseer trilogy)
assassin's apprentice (the farseer trilogy: book 1)
royal assassin (the farseer trilogy: book 2)
assassin's quest (the farseer trilogy: book 3)
the liveship traders (the liveship traders)
ship of magic (the liveship traders: book 1)
the mad ship (the liveship traders: book 2)
ship of destiny (the liveship traders: book 3)
dragon keeper (the rain wild chronicles: book 1)
dragon haven (the rain wild chronicles: book 2)
city of dragons (the rain wild chronicles: book 3)
blood of dragons (the rain wild chronicles: book 4)
the soldier son trilogy (the soldier son trilogy)
shaman's crossing (the soldier son trilogy: book 1)
forest mage (the soldier son trilogy: book 2)
renegade's magic (the soldier son trilogy: book 3)
the tawny man (the tawny man)
fool's errand (the tawny man: book 1)
the golden fool (the tawny man: book 2)
fool's fate (the tawny man: book 3)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




gardens of the moon by steven erikson
(a tale of the malazan book of the fallen: book 1)





"in the years and many novels since, certain facts have made themselves plain. beginning with gardens of the moon, readers will either hate my stuff or love it. there’s no in-between. naturally, i’d rather everyone loved it, but i understand this will never be the case. these are not lazy books. you can’t float through, you just can’t. even more problematic, the first novel begins halfway through a seeming marathon – you either hit the ground running and stay on your feet or you’re toast."steven erikson, 2007steven erikson's gardens of the moon is the first book in the series and is entitled a tale of the malazan book of the fallen. the book was first published in 1999 and marked a sensational, critically acclaimed debut.the malazan empire simmers with discontent, bled dry by interminable warfare, bitter infighting and bloody confrontations with the formidable anomander rake, lord of moon’s spawn, and his tiste andii. even the imperial legions, long inured to the bloodshed, yearn for some respite. yet empress laseen’s rule remains absolute, enforced by her dread claw assassins.for sergeant whiskeyjack and his squad of bridgeburners, and for tattersail, surviving sorceress of the second legion, the aftermath of the siege of pale should have been a time to mourn the many dead. but darujhistan, last of the free cities of genabackis, yet holds out and it is to this ancient citadel that laseen turns her predatory gaze.however, it would appear that the empire is not alone in this great game. sinister, shadowbound forces are gathering as the gods themselves prepare to play their hand…there is no easy way to describe this book, you are flung into the fantasy world from the first page with no explanation of characters or plot. questions that arise are rarely answered and if anything the answers raise even more questions of their very own. if you hoped that this would be a fantasy book that would help wile away a few rainy days then you will be in for a shock as this tale will require your full and undiluted attention from the very beginning. that is if you want to understand what is going on...as with many new fantasy novels there are a lot of new character and place names to come to terms with before you can fully enjoy the book. gardens of the moon is more difficult than most in this aspect as many, many characters enter the story in a very short time period and there is a lot to keep up with. it is though, without doubt, worth preserving as the whole story comes together beautifully and the plot begins to make more and more sense. i should also mention that it is not just people and places that you will need to learn, there are also gods that interfere in mankind's struggle.during the first chapters of the book, captain paran, one of the main characters comes into contact with the empress' adjunct at a scene of unexplained carnage.it was when the birds scattered from their path that the adjunct found herself envying the captain. before her the roused carrion-eaters exposed a carpet of armour, broken bones and meat. the air was hot, turgid and cloying. she saw soldiers, still helmed, their heads crushed by what must have been huge, terribly powerful jaws. she saw torn mail, crumpled shields, and limbs that had been ripped from bodies. lorn managed only a few moments of careful examination of the scene around them before she fixed her gaze on the promontory ahead, unable to encompass the magnitude of the slaughter.gardens of the moon: book one - paleamongst all the intrigue and battle there are a company of soldiers called the bridgeburners. i would say that these are most interesting and easily identifiable characters in the book. their fate is intertwined with that of captain paran, tattersail the mage and the myriad characters that appear in the tale. a large majority of the action centre's around a siege on a city called pale where there is a great magical battle between the empire's mage's and the lord of moon's spawn, anomander rake. we are unsure as to who is good and who is bad and the story builds nicely and the characters are developed nicely and past happenings are mentioned that help us to understand how everyone and everything has ended up in the situation that they are now.'as i said, things have changed,' k'rul said quietly. 'you have a choice, raest. onos t'oolan can destroy you. you have no understanding of what his title of sword signifies - he is without equal in this world. you can fall ignobly beneath the blade of an imass, or you can accompany me - for in one thing we are the same, you and i. our time has passed, and the gates of chaos await us. what choice do you make?''i make neither, elderling one.' with a soft, hollow laugh, raest's battered, withered body collapsed.k'rul cocked his head. 'he's found another body.'kruppe pulled out his handkerchief. 'oh, my,' he said.gardens of the moon: chapter twenty twoi can't overstate the importance of sticking with this book even if all seems to confusing, the book will make sense in the end as the author expertly brings all the threads of the story together and gives us a story to cherish. the imagination of steven erikson can only be marveled at as he breathes new life into the fantasy genre with his new ideas and creations.this is a book that i think i will need to re-read as soon as possible due to the fact that i feel it make be enjoyed even more second time around and there is a good chance that there a parts of the book that i missed first time around.i highly recommend this book, it is a work of great skill and beauty. read and enjoy.9/10 a stunning opening to what may become the best fantasy series in decades.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
39 positive reader review(s) for gardens of the moon
161 positive reader review(s) in total for the a tale of the malazan book of the fallen series








gardens of the moon reader reviews

trace from new jersey
this book and series is not for everyone, but not because you have to be intelligent to like it or anything silly like that. these books, and the series as a whole, employ a non-traditional structure that not everyone will find enjoyable. for those who do, these books will be an awesome, compelling, thought-provoking, humorous and emotional journey. for those who don't, these books will simply be a confusing, frustrating and boring mess. both perspectives are valid (even for smart people). this series is neither linear nor chronological, and it holds its cards close to the vest. most fantasy stories will establish several things in the first book, namely the central conflict, the conditions of resolving the conflict, and the stakes. most stories let you know that the characters have to win freedom, avert evil or war, the end of the world, whatever. how do they do this? by overthrowing the evil king, the dark lord, or the invading army. by learning something, killing something, finding a thing, learning to use a thing or destroying a thing in the fires of mount doom, etc. my point is that the reader knows generally where the story is going, and the fun is in the twists and turns of how it gets there. however dark things may look, no one doubts that frodo will get to mount doom, and the one ring will end up in the fires. this series isn't like that. erikson does not identify the central conflict, the conditions of resolution or the stakes until book 10 ( out of 10 books). the reader is simply swept along with the events that are happening and must slowly piece together how they are all connected without knowing where the story is going until you get there. the books will jump around to different characters, in different parts of the world, sometimes skipping forward and back in time, and they will not seem connected until the plot points all converge. some characters will be important from the beginning of the series to the end. others will be important for a short time only, influencing and taking part in certain events before dying off or disappearing. rather than a linear story of what happens to certain characters between point a (the beginning) and point b (the end), this story is a circular tapestry, with separate threads all leading to and converging at the center, which is book 10. not everyone will enjoy this series, but it's a wild ride for those that do. book 1 drops you in, gives you very few answers and tons of questions. it can be difficult to get into. it is better than it seems at first though, and although i liked it on my first read, i loved in on my second read through.
7/10 (2018-04-08)







frank from usa
you'll see people complain and say it's boring, complicated, a mess, poorly explained, haphazard, slow, etc these books are not written for most people. if you are intelligent, perceptive, thoughtful, and have a good memory then you may feel none of these things i myself found the characters, magic system, plot, locales, etc all understandable, enjoyable, well thought out, and greatly explained. it simply is the greatest work of fiction that i have ever read in my life and nothing comes close. if you're someone who quickly understands things and can connect dots from page 30 in book 1 to page 270 in book 4, you'll love it too possibly. if you can't then i'm sorry for your loss.
10/10 (2017-07-31)







oliver from belgium
best series ever read, actually reading it for a 3rd time and enjoying it as ever. 2nd best is iron throne. that's so rich, breathtaking, it's an ufo in fantasyland.
10/10 (2017-04-10)







niall from united kingdom
so so good
10/10 (2016-06-18)







curt from uk
slow. and dark. i like slow.
9/10 (2016-03-09)







jack regan from us
i've kept this series in my back pocket, all 10 books sitting on a bookshelf for the last 3 or 4 years, and i admit that in addition to being deeply intrigued, i was also intimidated by them, having read multiple comments about how difficult the series is to get into and how complex it is. i knew i'd need to be in the right place with my life when i started them & i also knew it would be something special. my experience in starting gardens of the moon isn't that i'd been dropped right into the middle of an overly complicated plot with no bearings or orientation, but rather that a window into a spectacular & fully realized world had been cracked open for me, and that it was up to me to crawl through. i admit to being more careful in my reading of gardens than i am in most of the speculative fiction i read, however the list of persons in the front of the book & the glossary in the back work just fine in providing enough puzzle pieces to allow one to start to put this insanely massive & multi-layered tale together. the thing i didn't expect was how willing i'd be to put in the extra work, attention & care into studying this amazing series. this thing hooked me early, as soon as i encountered the high mage tattersail at the tail end of an epic battle during her first encounter with the bridge burners ("who are you people??"). simply stunning, and it never lets up. what a mind, what a unique imagination. do yourself a favor if you are a fan of the genre and sink into this series, it's incredible, and gardens of the moon is just the beginning...
10/10 (2015-07-13)







keval from uk
you have to stick with this book. it can be tedious for the first few hundred pages but i promise you that it is worth it. having read a song of ice and fire, the lord of the rings including the silmarillion and many other fiction series i can assure you that this is up there with the best of them. erikson entwines various characters and plots throughout the series and it all begins here. i think of it like a stubborn door - you have to push fairly hard to get through but once you do you'll be fascinated by what is on the other side! a must read for any fantasy reader.
10/10 (2015-05-28)







raphael from france
a very imperfect start, confusing and dislocated into to many point-of-view characters... but this is enough to intrigue and lay the foundations of an incredible universe. fortunately, erikson improves his style and storytelling in the next book. maybe the whole series deserves a 10 (i have not read it completely yet) but gardens cannot be worth more than 6 - too many flaws, it's a pity, really... and i think it's not fair to overrate this book just because the following is great - most of the criticism i saw from disappointed readers is valid, without a shadow of a doubt.
6/10 (2014-06-28)







coltaine from india
this series epitomises the saying "hard work pays". stick to the series and you will be rewarded richly, from coltaine's march to trull sengar's story you will find something which will relate to you.
10/10 (2013-11-14)







phil from cardiff, uk
you can't even begin to think of yourself as a lover of fantasy until you've read this. incredible!
10/10 (2013-10-01)







robin from nepal
brilliant!! the sheer amount of data in the beginning is overwhelming... but no regrets once the characters are fully shaped. its my favorite series now ahead of song of ice and fire.
10/10 (2013-08-28)







brandon from usa
this book is brilliant! if you pay atyention and use your brain you will be rewarded greatly. i was turned on to this series because of the comparisons to asoiaf but what erikson has created is something far more grand and complex. a series for smart people with a beautiful poetic aspect to it that i have come to enjoy as much as anything i have ever read. amazing stuff if your willing to put in the effort.
9/10 (2013-06-26)







darren from manchester
frustrating, tiresome, vague, complicated and to put the icing on the cake utterly utterly brilliant! i have never read anything by an author that can encapsulate such opposite feeling from chapter to chapter and book to book but once you have read the entire series you step back and simple marvel at the genius of erikson. i have seen the references to shallow characters etc... to which i can only respond "you just don't get it" and that is the requirement, erikson doesn't spoon feed, heck he doesn't feed in anyway, he simply throws you into the pool and lets you sink or swim to find your way and he gets a "bravo" from me for taking that risk. i still think that brandon sanderson (imo) is the better author of the 2 but is is comparing chalk and cheese tbh, erikson is a genius worldbuilder, sanderson is a genius storyteller (and magic systems mechanic and an excellent worldbuilder in his own right) it is not easy to compare the two of the best writers of the fantasy genre so i read both :d
8/10 (2013-06-10)







josip from croatia
best fantasy series out there! don't miss it!
10/10 (2012-12-14)







ivan from croatia
gardens of the moon is just the beginning of a mind blowing story, exceptional world, great characters, epic wars etc... which t highly recommend to everybody hungry for a great read... steven erikson will hardly be surpassed in years to come...
10/10 (2012-11-28)







andarist from drift avalii
amazing, simply amazing. one of the greatest books i have ever read, second only to the other books in the series.
10/10 (2012-10-12)







hristo from spain
a nice start for a really complex fantasy book.
8/10 (2012-10-01)







adam from uk
i loved these books because they made me think full time. to say they are an easy read... they're not, so if your looking for a simple series read another set. but if you want something complex and well structured and a amazing diversified cast, read these books.
10/10 (2012-08-28)







wayne from uk
i've only started reading fantasy novels, and i've made a terrible mistake in starting with this series. steven erikson has set the bar too high.
10/10 (2012-08-15)







john from vankoughnet
only half way through the book but i am already hooked. yes the characters are full of questions and i feel like i missed some back stories but i am willing to take on the challenge. i am a huge gamer and i plan to run my dungeons and dragons group in this new found world ( after i get to grips with whats going on) .
i look forward to the next books in the series. 
8/10 (2012-06-30)







tehol the only from letheras
words cannot express the sheer awesomeness of this series. it's hard to get into: gardens of the moon dumps you in the middle of action, among dozens of characters in an unknown continent and the first 200 pages will really see you struggle to figure out what's happening... but oh how it's worth it. going from book to book you'll feel like learning a foreign language, understanding only little bits at first (but you have to pay attention, no spoon-feeding here) and then more and more. at some point you'll re-read the first books and get blown away again as they'll feel completely different once you get the malaz way of thinking. not a book for everyone but i really can't see how steven erikson can be so underrated... so few people reading him and so many going nuts over a certain pompous fake who lately got a series on the hbo (any reference to events or persons is purely coincidental). buy this!
10/10 (2012-03-29)







nikitas from london
i'm still reading this book. i've read more than 60%, according to my kindle and i believe i can form an opinion on it. i have to admit that this book is one of the few books that made me miss my train stop. i completely love it.
i don't agree that it is as complicated as other people say. for example other books, like the 'song of fire and ice' have far more characters and povs. steven's writting is so captivating. i find that not knowing the background of the characters from the begining a very good thing. there are surprises in every corner that keep the reader interested.
i usually don't like rating a book before the end. hopefully i'm not wrong to score it a 9.
9/10 (2012-03-22)







tom from withernsea
many people have doubtless complained that erikson is a vague prose stylist, but this criticism is almost certainly based on the fact that erikson deliberately rejects fantasy convention and seeks to achieve what can actually be called a writing style that extends beyond narrative and breaches (very slightly indeed) the poetic. although fantasy writers tend to be superior users of language to, say thriller, crime, and mystery writers, they are rarely - with the exception of a few - possessed of anything that may be called aesthetic skill, they rely very much on an adequate style which adaquately conveys character psychology and narrative, with their books largely driven by the readerly desire to know ''what happens next''. erikson strives for a comprehensive world history alongside the creation of complex humans whose motivations and lives are communicated in a method far more ambiguous than the almost child-like exposition and shallowness that is a well-established tendency in fantasy novels. erikson should be praised not only for transgressing the bounds of character and narrative strucuture, hence creating a series which occasionally makes one feel as if one is witnessing a unique history develop, but for describing his world in a manner which dispenses with linearity. the malazan novels are a genuine achievement. a piece of basic advice to the traditional fanatsy reader: you will find it difficult to gain an initial foothold 'gardens of the moon', but attentiveness to the history of its world and its numerous cultural aspects will prove rewarding. a
10/10 (2012-03-01)







david  from england
amazing that all i can say.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







dave from stalyvegas
hmmm, time will recognise steven erikson's genius. the tale of the malazan book of the fallen series will be studied in school, college and university the world over for it's sheer brilliance in terms of narration, philosopy, ethics, character development, scene setting, dealing with complexity, blending depravity with violence and humour, breaking the rules etc etc. you are witnessing, my friends, a modern day shakespeare. forget all the dross in the booker list erikson is one of the most profound authors i've come across. if his books were not in the s&f genre he would have been far more widely acclaimed by now in the literary establishment. time will show his true literary genius!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







tom from canada
like quick ben from new zealand said, these books are frustrating... but also incredibly rewarding. they're frustrating because they jump around through dozens of povs and the enormous scope of the series makes it difficult to follow. also, the way that erikson writes is highly ambiguous, but this is not necessarily a bad thing. it makes the story more mysterious and adds a great deal of unpredictability and even a certain poetic quality to the writing. the series is rewarding because it is incredibly creative, there are tons of amazing battles involving powerful characters and even gods, and the climax of virtually every novel is mind-blowing, without fail. once you make it to book 3 you'll start to see the bigger picture of what is unfolding... and prepare to be amazed. 
9/10 (2012-03-01)







milan from dordrecht
for everyone who just don't understand anything about the story behind the malazan book of the fallen. well tough luck it is meant to be this way, steve erikson's meaning was to create an epic fantasy book. how did he do it? well he didn't take the reader by the hand and introduced all the main characters piece by piece. no, instead he just throws storylines right in your face. being very interested in history myself and knowing a thing or two about ancient mythology, the interweaving of tales is just brilliantly done. finally i have to say "yes" these books are not for the lazy reader, the story can be murky but as the author says himself: "naturally, i'd rather everybody loved it, but i understand why this will never be the case. these are not lazy books. you can't float through, you just can't. even more problematic, the first novel begins halfway through a seeming marathon - you either hit the ground running and stay on your feet or you're toast" well that about says it all doesn't it.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







shell from winchester
this series will no doubt receive 10/10 once i have read the final book - compelling characters and original plot.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







james from bangor
hm...these books are intelligent. they're well-written, intricately plotted, and have great world-building and characterization. they're also slow, pretentious, and self-important. to be perfectly honest, i don't understand the wave of love these books have received. they're good, i'll grant you, but there's little warmth in them and they only get more frustrating as time goes on. so good, but not great.
7/10 (2012-03-01)







quick ben from auckland, new zealand
the book is not perfect... it is hard to read... and down right frustrating at times... it is also epic, smart, complex and one of the best novels i have read. period. and i have read a lot. across the genres. as a friend of mine who i enticed to read it said.. "it is like fantasy... for adults" and that is so true. you will have to work hard to get through it but its well worth it in the end. i've read up to book 7 then decided to start from the beginning again so that i can read the series right through up until the final volume is released. second time round i appreciated so much more how epic this book was. there is stuff going on here that won't become obvious until you are well advanced in the series. my advice... read it... persevere... then at the end marvel at how incredible the ride was.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







andreas from copenhagen, denmark
best fantasy series out there period!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







koen from netherlands
i just finished reading gardens of the moon and i loved it! you just get thrown into a world of which you know absolutely nothing about, a very abundant fantasy world at that, full of gods and magic and whatnot! to make it even more interesting, erikson doesn't even explain anything. nope, nothing at all. an ignorant main character then, that gets taught by some wiser allies? nope, that isn't the case either!! you just get pelt by all sorts of terms that mean aaaaaaaaaaabsolutely nothing to you, except for the fact that they often sound cool ^_^ and while reading you slowly start to understand the world around you! you change perspective a lot, so much that it takes some time to find out who the good guys are and who the bad!! all kinds of major events take place, and the.... 'mood' of the story make sure that you realise this, however, you've got no clue what's going on!! the story takes your full participation, and if you can keep up with all the terms you'll slowly start to understand everything. but. everything that happens gets defined by you, and you alone. steven erikson gives you the guidelines, it's up to you to visualise the story, and he leaves you pleeeeeeeeenty of room for that! :d about the story itself, it's about 'free will' mainly. the gods try to influence everything, everyone's struggling to survive. nearly every person is a pawn to a major power in the world, be it gods or an empire. yet the struggle against this being ordered around is what defines the book most i think. fighting for your own cause, not for the cause that has been laid upon you. all in all an excellent read, and i'm proud to add the full series to my collection next time i order books again!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







tony from uk
@ana seriously, have we been reading the same books. i teach philosophy and find there are deep moral outlooks that cover the characters and they events/life they find themselves in.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







steve from london
i came across this book without ever having heard of the author. after 100 pages i nearly gave up, but something about the author's style made me keep going. was i glad i did! this book blew my mind, although i had to re-read straight away to get everything straight. the best modern fantasy series and author today bar none. how mr erikson pumps these novels out at the rate of one a year beats me. this is exciting and intelligent stuff and having caught up with the series i can't wait for the climax. developing the plot and characters across the series and keeping them fresh is a major achievment. get into the world of the malazans now, you won't regret it.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







omar from sydney
there is no other word more fitting for steven erikson, for his achievement with this stunning series. he takes an old format and tired genre by the throat and revolutionizes it with his creativity, his ingenuity and brilliant storytelling. a multitude of characters, grim and dark, struggle to survive in a world every bit as real and brutal as our own, if not more so. this is perhaps the only time fiction has made the real world pale into insignificance. this is a series that everyone should read. a lyrical master, erikson fills his novels with lush prose and evocative descriptions without ever losing that hard edge; his characters distinguish themselves more distinctly than any i can remember - you will laugh, scoff and mourn with them as though you were best of friends or kin. erikson proves himself as the best in the business with this series and gardens of the moon is a rip-roaring opener. 
9/10 (2012-03-01)







ed from nottingham
with most modern fantasy being very much a "good vs evil" affair, i found this book very refreshing. by the end i was still trying to work out who the good guys and the bad guys were! it is an extremely well crafted story of war, politics and betrayal. the story flows well, despite the number of characters involved and builds up to an exciting climax. i get the feeling that this is very much the 'tip of the iceberg' in terms of the world that erikson has created. i have wasted no time whatsoever in starting his second novel.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







emily from seattle
this is a perfect start to what may be the best fantasy series i have ever read. complex fantasy, rich characters, involving story. i found that i had to re-read the book as i felt that i'd missed too much first time around. i'm glad i did, it was even better second time around, kruppe is a great character.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







gaz from the malazan empire
wow, what can i say. fantasy like this does not come along all that often and i was blown away. the imagination of steven erikson is incredible, the world that he builds and characters that he creates are unbelievably good. gardens of the moon has a start and a finish so you could stop after reading it but i find it highly unlikely that anyone could do that. brilliant, fantastic, exceptional, i'm running out of superlatives, so just buy it.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







daniel from reading
steven erikson is the best fantasy author to come along since tolkien. his narrative is spellbinding and the characters are as life-like as you could wish for. i did like gardens of the moon but thought that erikson was cutting his teeth on this one and that the books improve with each release. memories of ice is very, very good!
8/10 (2012-03-01)









9.3/10 from 40 reviews

all steven erikson reviews

a tale of the malazan book of the fallen (a tale of the malazan book of the fallen)
gardens of the moon (a tale of the malazan book of the fallen: book 1)
the crippled god (a tale of the malazan book of the fallen: book 10)
deadhouse gates (a tale of the malazan book of the fallen: book 2)
memories of ice (a tale of the malazan book of the fallen: book 3)
house of chains (a tale of the malazan book of the fallen: book 4)
midnight tides (a tale of the malazan book of the fallen: book 5)
the bonehunters (a tale of the malazan book of the fallen: book 6)
reaper's gale (a tale of the malazan book of the fallen: book 7)
toll the hounds (a tale of the malazan book of the fallen: book 8)
dust of dreams (a tale of the malazan book of the fallen: book 9)
the first collected tales of bauchelain and korbal broach (collected tales of bauchelain and korbal broach: book 1)
the second collected tales of bauchelain & korbal broach (collected tales of bauchelain and korbal broach: book 2)
the wurms of blearmouth (collected tales of bauchelain and korbal broach: book 3)
willful child 
rejoice 
the god is not willing (the first tale of witness)
forge of darkness (the kharkanas trilogy: book 1)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




northern lights by philip pullman
(his dark materials: book 1)





northern lights is the first part of philip pullman's acclaimed dark materials trilogy. the book was first published in 1995, a year in which the book also claimed the carnegie award.imagine a world that is as alike as it is disimilar to our own. where huge zeppelins litter the skyline and a persons' soul is a living breathing animal companion or 'daemon'. this is the world of lyra belacqua, orphan and carefree child who lives with the musty old scholars of jordan college, oxford. together with her daemon pantalaimon, lyra's uncomplicated life is about to be turned upside down with an amazing and sometimes terrifying chain of events beginning with her uncle lord asriel's visit to the college to plan an expidition to the northern lights. his goal is to find the source of 'dust'and a possible gateway to another world. soon after is the appearance of mrs coulter, a cool and charasmatic woman who decides that lyra should be versed in the etiquette of becoming a young woman and decides to take lyra away from jordan college but whom lyra soons suspects has, together with her golden monkey daemon, an ulterior motive. with a strange golden compass, known as an 'alethiometer' in her possesion, given to her by the master of the college and the terrible disappearance of many local children at the hands of the 'gobblers', it is the disappearance of her own best friend roger and the one too many obsticles put in her way to find out more about 'dust' that makes lyra more sure than ever that these events are all linked somehow and the only way to find out more, and her friend, is to travel to the northern lights."'if i talked to her about dust? you don't think she'd listen to that?' the librarian made a noise to indicate how unlikely he thought that was.'why on earth should she?' he said. 'why should a distant theoligical riddle interest a healthy thoughtless child?' 'because of what she must experience. part of that includes a great betrayal...' 'who's going to betray her?' 'no, no, that's the saddest thing: she will be the betrayer, and the experience will be terrible'"chapter 2: northern lightswritten as a childrens book but equally absorbing to any adult reader, i would not hesitate in recommending this first book in the philip pullman 'his dark materials' trilogy. it is wonderfully enthralling from the first page and paints a world that you long to visit. there are enough twists and turns to keep the pace of the plot zooming along rather nicely and many interesting characters along the way. there aren't many books that can boast daemons, witches, armoured polar bears and possible other worlds; quite a head-full to keep your imagination ticking over. on another level, which younger children may not pick up on but will by no means spoil their enjoyment, is the anti-church theme represented by the controlling magisterium and a smattering of quantum physics and chaos theory thrown in for good measure. it is in fact this mix of science, theology and magic, a theme that continues throughout the trilogy that ensures this book stands out from the rest. there are some parts of this book that, even for an adult can be quite upsetting; there are instances of death and grief that some might feel are subjects they do not wish their child to read about, however, i believe that such subjects are part of life and philip pullman's decision to include these and not to gloss over such subjects shows a real respect for the age group this book was written for. it is no small wonder that the 'his dark materials' trilogy has been met with critical acclaim. an unforgettable read that will ensure you read the second book 'the subtle knife' without pausing for breath inbetween."then a door opened by means of a large wheel; a hiss of air; and a brilliantly lit chamber with dazzling white tiles and stainless steel. the fear she fet was almost a physical pain; it was a physical pain, as they pulled her and pantalaimon over towards a larg cage of pale silver mesh, above which a great pale silver blade hung poised to seperate them forever. she found a voice at last, and screamed. the sound echoed loudly of the shiny surfaces, but the heavy door had hissed shut; she could scream and scream forever, and not a sound would escape. but pantalaimon, in answer, had twisted free of those hateful hands - he was a lion, an eagle; he tore at them with vicious talons, great wings beat wildly, and then he was a wolf, a bear, a polecat - darting, snarling, slashing, a succession of transformations too quick to register, and all the time leaping, flying, dodging from one spot to another as their clumsy hands flailed and snatched at empty air. but they had daemons too, of course. it wasn't two against three, it was two against six. a badger, an owl and a baboon were all just as intent to pin pantalaimon down, and lyra was crying to them, 'why? why are you doing this? help us! you shouldn't be helping them!'""chapter 16: northern lights9/10 written as a childrens book but equally absorbing to any adult reader.


buy on amazon

review by amanda white
35 positive reader review(s) for northern lights
64 positive reader review(s) in total for the his dark materials series







northern lights reader reviews

anne from uk
a great read for anyone aged 9 and up. it is a book that can be enjoyed on 2 levels, either as a tale of action and adventure, or as a tale that explores themes as challenging as the practice of religion and experimentation on both humans and animals. set in a world both familiar and magically different, the concept that our spirits/souls take the form of dæmons (think a witch's black cat) is arguably the hook that catches you and reels you in. a very deep book if you wish it to be, and re-reads are highly beneficial.
9/10 (2021-08-05)







isla from england 
one of the most enchanting books i have ever read of to be honest the most enchanting i have picked up. from line one, ‘lyra and her deamon moved through the great hall, taking care to keep out of site of the kitchen, to the last line, ‘so lyra and her deamon walked into the sky.’ i think it should be 10 plus before they read the books beacase it’s contains aspects of death. i could give it more than 10 stars.
10/10 (2020-12-28)







azaleya from new zealand
even though it was for homework and i am a slow reader, not so interested in books, i still very much enjoyed it. aspects about the gobblers and what they 'did' reminded me of 'the promised neverland' a.k.a. 'yakusuko no neverland'.
10/10 (2020-10-27)







doris  from scotland 
brilliant! great story, i am only half way through the first book but i have a question i am a person of the same age as the author. why do the characters in the book speak in such terrible english no decent grammar at all, is there a reason?
10/10 (2019-12-02)







luna from spain
it will take you away from your bedroom to a world with talking bears, spying beatles and shape shifting daemons. when you start reading you just can't stop! =) i would recomend it for teens.
10/10 (2019-05-10)







amelia from london 
love the book can’t stop the reading so just read read read read
10/10 (2019-04-16)







ells from kent uk
this books is so good! i can’t stop reading it, the tension and excitement and mystery in the story line is amazing. at first i wasn’t sure as the book was thick and looked a heavy read but as i got more into the book i found it more interesting. i haven’t finished it yet but nearly there!!! i recommend this book to 12+ as it is complicated and a heavy read however perfect for adventurous readers!! enjoy reading 😉
9/10 (2019-03-21)







izzy from england
one of the best books i've ever read. would recommend to 10-12 readers!
10/10 (2019-01-20)







gandalf from rivendale
this book really pulled me in from the very start. pullman creates vivid fantasy scenes which create strong images in my mind. i wasn't ever bored throughout my reading of the book and think it's absolutely amazing! i recommend it to ages 10/11 and adventure lovers. a extremely great book.
10/10 (2018-12-08)







cian from scotland
amazing book would definitely recommend, do not read any reviews under 8 stars its a fantastic book!!
10/10 (2018-11-21)







shivanjali from new zealand
very good book but a little slow starting.
9/10 (2018-08-30)







sara  from uk
i had to read this book as homework from my new school and was so excited when i heard the reviews. it turned out to be extremely slow-starting and i stopped reading it halfway. when i gave it another shot i still found it slow-starting but the middle and ending were amazing and very enjoyable. i'd denfinitely be recommending this book to young teenagers and adults but be prepared for a slow start!👍 good luck
7/10 (2017-08-25)







bloossom from unicornland
liked it but was a bit boring but have it 10 stars due to the thought process used in making it
10/10 (2017-08-16)







sam from uk
very good indeed phillip pullman. best book ever.
10/10 (2017-03-30)







jess from england
i am loving this book!
10/10 (2016-12-08)







mia from derby, uk
i would give it 8 seeing as it is very intriguing .i have only read half the book and i would like to finish the book asap! also i am learning about this in my form in school. i just love the fantasy in it. however, there's quite a lot of description and direct speech!
8/10 (2015-11-30)







rab from australia
the best book and also very addictive. can't stop reading it!
10/10 (2015-03-22)







jackson from us
great book, but not the best i have ever read so i will give it a 9.
9/10 (2015-02-09)







akshay from india
it is a fantastic book for anyone over 10 years old. it is enthralling from first page. perfect!!
10/10 (2014-10-18)







jodha from japan
superb!
10/10 (2014-09-26)







jack powell from england
couldn't put it down, such an amazing book. the film is exactly the same.
10/10 (2014-01-07)







megan  from england 
fantastic storyline! great imagination and brilliant characters!! great for old and young!! would recommend everyone reads the full series.
10/10 (2013-11-11)







william from england
a fantastic book for everyone!!!!!
10/10 (2013-09-04)







harriet from england
amazing, couldn't put it down.
10/10 (2013-08-08)







from from from
a wonderful tale, if only because its sequels are so great! only one warning: if you're not one for sad endings, this series may not be for you. nevertheless, a full-hearted 10/10!!
10/10 (2013-01-02)







kaylee from candyland
amazing book. i loved it soooooo much!! it takes you away from ordinary, boring old life to a magical place! i envy anyone who is reading it for the first time. i couldn't stop reading it and my mum got annoyed because i didn't come to dinner xp
10/10 (2012-09-12)







rachel  from unknown
6/10 i liked it but didn't love it.
6/10 (2012-09-06)







dianah from jamacia
i give it 6/10. it was a fantastic story but they overdone it with all the fantasy. though i have to say the book did not disappoint. 
6/10 (2012-09-01)







sarah from england
northern lights was originally written as a children's book but is equally absorbing to any adult reader. i would not hesitate in recommending this wonderfully enthralling book which paints a world that you will long to visit. there are many twists and turns throughout to keep the pace of the pot racing along as well as enough interesting characters along the way. there are very few books which can boast about daemons, witches, armoured polar bears and which keep your head full of imagination. it is no small wonder that the dark materials trilogy has been met with an unforgettable read that will unsure you read the second book the subtle knife without pausing for a breath in between.
10/10 (2012-07-09)







tanika from hammons
this book seems to be a little over rated...
6/10 (2012-06-01)







abbie newton from stanford essex uk 
an excellent fast-paced book involving childish wit yet a somewhat sophisticated air. i could not put it down and would recommend it to any book, or fantasy lover. one of the most imaginative books in some time with just the right amount of suspense towards the end. 9/10.
9/10 (2012-05-21)







anais from adelaide
a well-written, fast-paced book. it was witty and filled with action, although sometimes it may have moved slightly fast, without much description. with a slow start, and a tedious and confusing middle, the ending was more convincing and exciting. a great book, though not something i would recommend! 
8/10 (2012-04-23)







milan panchia from new zealand 
overall i think this book is amazing, it's suspenseful and exciting and the ideas are very, very witty and original. i have grown to love lyra and her friends and am looking forward to reading the amber spyglass.
10/10 (2012-03-09)







andy from reading
i read this trilogy a number of years ago and couldn't put it down. the depth of emotion conveyed in these books and the manner in which it is done is simply enthralling. the writing is magnificent and the story brilliant, i felt myself being fully pulled into these books. i have noted that there are comments that books such as ruby and the smoke were better, i think these earlier books showed how mr pullman developed his characters, scenes and story lines, they certainly are not as good as his dark materials. i think i also like this trilogy because it has a dig at the catholic church, however that is a small bonus.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







gary from vancouver, bc
a fantasy book out of comprehension. philip pullman clearly writes with creativity and raw intensity. his characters are as interesting as they are believable. the story is complex, yet easy to follow and there are clearly moments that are well thought out. the golden compass is not the archetypical fantasy novel, it's a genuine masterpiece. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







barbara from basildon essex uk
a wonderful, magical journey. it is fast paced and takes you away from the mundane and ordinary to the wonderful and extraordinary. i could not put it down.
10/10 (2012-03-01)









9.3/10 from 37 reviews

all philip pullman reviews

his dark materials (his dark materials)
once upon a time in the north (his dark materials novella)
northern lights (his dark materials: book 1)
the subtle knife (his dark materials: book 2)
the amber spyglass (his dark materials: book 3)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




perdido street station by china mieville
(new crobuzon: book 1)





i began reading perdido street station firstly as a break from sci-fi and secondly because it sounded vaguely interesting. i finished reading perdido street station (a surprisingly short time later given how long the book is)finding it to be one of the greatest, strangest and most utterly awesome things i've read for a considerable while. i have tried to recommend it to my friends and my explanation of what the book is about sort of goes like this:"well, it's set in a city called new krobuzon where there are humans, but other races like cactus people and frog people who craft water- as well as steam-powered robots and cyborgs, though there are also magicians and scientists. the story is about a scientist who is asked to help a crippled bird man fly again but by accident releases a plague of trans-dimensional moths onto the city that eat people's minds. oh, and the scientist is involved with a woman who's head is a scarab beetle and who makes sculptures out of her own spit!"at this point, my friends usually respond with "whaaaa?" and honestly i can't blame them.there really is no way to adequately explain either the setting or the plot of perdido street station without making it sound like a bad acid trip and in the hands of a less accomplished author this is undoubtedly how it would've appeared, a far too blatant attempt to be weird for the sake of weird without trying to actually tell a coherent story.mieville however not only manages to make the entirely unique world and seemingly nonsensical plot hang together incredibly well, but also tell it with a beauty, a dark, poignant sense of humour  and a descriptive atmospheric style that is nothing short of brilliant.at the beginning of the book mieville cites mervin peake as an author who has influenced him, and from his gorgeous rhythm to his artistic flair for language and description this is obvious. like the crumbling castle of gormenghast, the huge sprawling city of new krobuzon is a constant presence in the book, and we're continually being introduced to new sights, new districts and new cultures in this gritty metropolis, all depicted with a grotesque and amazing form of poetry that is as compelling as it is distinctive. the riches of the corrupt parliament and their machinations, to the bohemian quarter of artists, to a weird university full of students and prejudice, to racial ghettos, various sorts of squalor and degradation, all are picked out beautifully and more than frequently horrifically.often i found myself needing to stop reading, overcome by emotions ranging from horror to disgust to pity to shear fascination with the strange beauty just at descriptive passages alone.unlike peake however, mieville's work is far more than just a set of word paintings in a colourful location distantly connected with a plot, since mieville's characters are complex, three dimensional and all the more real.i personally didn't find any trouble following the story, albeit that it is definitely a stranger one than you would expect. the principle character (or at least the one we spend most time with) is isaac, a middle-aged and somewhat neurotic discredited scientist.from his fascination with problem solving to his helplessness when things go severely wrong, i found isaac both likeable and in some cases mildly frustrating, but no different to people i know in reality. one of the highpoints for me was isaac's relationship with the kepri sculptor lin.i find that i care most about romantic relationships in books when i sympathize with the characters involved. this doesn't mean having both parties be young and beautiful and spout big emotional lines (or even be opposing gender), but both have a motivation i can feel and empathize with, and genuinely gain something from being together.isaac, for all his neurotic focus on problems and his quite realistic fear of what others may think of a cross species relationship is a fundamentally decent minded person who at least tries to do the right thing for others. lin is a gentle artist at variants with her own culture and yet trying to make an identity for herself and in her own way can be equally self-obsessed (the way both isaac and lin understand the other's need for space is really quite adorable). despite the alien world and in the case of lin the extremely alien species, i found both characters believable, and if you told me that before the end of the book i'd find myself literally reduced to tears by a romance which included a fat middle aged scientist and a woman who is part insect i'd have wondered what you were smoking, but i can't deny this actually happened.though we spend most of our time with isaac, or lin, frequently mieville gives us other character perspectives, or just generalized views of new krobuzon as well, yet nowhere did any of this feel ill-fitting or out of place. i loved that mieville did not feel that he needed to always be focusing absolutely on building up the events of his plot and freely takes the odd detour just to show how certain events occur as they do or give another aspect on new krobuzon. indeed, much like one of my other favourite books, william horwood's duncton found, i loved how perdido street station was a book that needed to be appreciated holistically, that all elements from artistry to plot to dialogue contributed to the full impression rather than just being scattered parts put together.i also confess i disagree with ryan lawler on the profanity, both in some descriptive passages and in characters' own speech, since mieville uses profanity the same way he uses all aspects of language, to emphasise certain qualities or aspects of the city or give some characters a more realistic turn of phrase.this can be seen perfectly in the name of the drug dream sh*t, which is both descriptive and explanatory and in many senses artistic as regards its actual affect.there is no other way of saying it; perdido street station is a work of art! at times horrific, beautiful, tragic, comic or even uplifting, with a plot which takes unexpected turns and twists and revelations, one of the most unique settings imaginable and above all a style of dark poetry that is truly exceptional. needless to say, i'll be seeking out other books by mieville in short order, and i definitely will be returning to perdido street station in the future.odd though it is, i cannot recommend this book highly enough.dark, 10/10perdido street station is the first book in china mieville's new crobuzon series, published by macmillian in 2000. the book is set in the world of bas-lag, a fantasy world full of weird and wonderful creatures and environments unlike anything i have ever read about before. this book is quite large and mieville has a habit of continously introducing new information and concepts all the way through to the end of the book, making it a very daunting challenge. however, it is very easy to become immersed in his world and in the end all of the information and loose ends are drawn together for one of the most satisfying conclusions to a book i have read in recent memory.ryan lawler, 9.6/10while this book is part of a series, perdido street station is essentially a standalone novel made up from a collection of short stories that are woven into one central story. the central story revolves around isaac, a neurotic scientist who is trying to manufacture a new set of wings for a garuda (a bird-like man) whose wings had been ripped off as punishment for committing an unspeakable crime. conducting his research by obtaining as many specimens of flying creatures as possible, isaac unwittingly sets in motion a sequence of events that unleashes a bunch of monstrous slake moths. these creatures terrorise the city of new crobuzon, leaving their victims completely catatonic by feeding on their subconscious mind, and will continue to do so unless isaac can figure out a way to stop them.this is a very busy novel, there are so many different stories in motion and it feels like something new happens every time you turn the page. while on the whole this flood of information is handled exceptionally well, usually leading to some breathtaking action sequences, it can sometimes be very hard to keep up with. as a result i found myself focusing almost exclusively on the main story, caring less and less about subplots that seemed to have nothing to do with the central story to the point where i was disregarding a lot of information, not knowing that it would become very important later in the story.perdido street station is a well written and absorbing story aimed at breaking the rules for a number of different fantasy concepts. there are some minor issues regarding information overload and the use of profanities which can quickly remove the sense of immersion, but these are easily overcome by the beauty and creativity of the world that mieville has created. perdido street station is a very intricate and complex novel that provides a refreshing challenge to the way in which epic fantasy is traditionally explored.10/10 an intricate, complex novel that provides a refreshing challenge to the fantasy genre.


buy on amazon

reviews by dark and ryan lawler
5 positive reader review(s) for perdido street station
7 positive reader review(s) in total for the new crobuzon series







perdido street station reader reviews

steve lawless from uk
i've read thousands of books of all genres but this is the only one i've read three times. this was the first mieville book i read although i've now read all of his. the first page enthralls you. the quality of the writing is outstanding and astounding. his imagination and scope are incredible. at the same time he incorporates the worst elements of political systems and, indeed, of humanity, repression, exploitation, greed. the plot is expansive and the characters well rounded. his descriptive writing fires the imagination. of the bas-lag trilogy this, i think, is the best but i do eagerly await everything that he writes.
10/10 (2020-07-28)







anita from uk
one of the most extraordinary books i have enjoyed, richly imaginative, brilliantly realized and well written. i am a big fan of mieville, and this is one of his best, but also one of the worst, because all that brilliance is let down - literally betrayed, by its ending. in the novel mieville explores so many complex layers and nuances of society with such depth and sophistication, his descriptions of the biological impulses of the slake moths utterly genius. so why did he end the novel, topple its entire magnificent edifice, with some trite moralistic justification for what must be the most devastating betrayal of a key character - and, indeed, of the reader he carries so far?
8/10 (2018-04-15)







raphael from france
abounding, odd and surprising, this is a baroque and sophisticated adventure, heavy with political and social meanings. as demanding as it is rewarding (stay close to the dictionary), sometimes funny, often dark and subversive... definitly gripping.
9/10 (2014-06-23)







martin
great book! captivating, dark and really imaginative. a wonderful change in a world full of plain standard fantasy.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







allan from bridgend
brilliant author with an incredible imagination.....
9/10 (2012-03-01)









9.3/10 from 6 reviews

all china mieville reviews

the city and the city 
kraken 
embassytown 
railsea 
perdido street station (new crobuzon: book 1)
the scar (new crobuzon: book 2)
iron council (new crobuzon: book 3)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




lord foul's bane by stephen donaldson
(chronicles of thomas covenant the unbeliever: book 1)





thomas covenant. arguably one of the most famous names in fantasy, but not all who know it love it. whether it is due to the covenant character himself, or simply as a response to the series as a whole, readers find themselves often divided in their opinions: some love it, some hate it. but few dismiss it. and it should not be forgotten that the chronicles of thomas covenant had a profound impact on the genre at the time; effects that can still be felt today as authors like steven erikson continue to write fantasy that is both brave and ambitious; fantasy that is not written to simply please the masses.i first read lord foul's bane when i was a teenager and i am now able to understand that i was simply not ready for it at that time in my life; my vocabulary did not stretch far enough and by overly focussing on covenant i missed the most beautiful aspects of the book. but now, twenty years on, i have embarked on a complete series re-read and this time around i was able to enjoy and comprehend the book in a way i was previously unable to. this is not a book/series for the casual fantasy reader and i urge those who may initially struggle, to persevere, as the books contain moments of sheer magic and the characters and locations are amongst the best to be found in the genre.my re-read was also interesting for another reason, and that i was able to pick up on certain similarities to jrr tolkien's the lord of the rings, which i missed first time. i think this may be partly explained by both authors having similar influences, ranging from richard wagner's der ring des nibelungen to norse mythology but nevertheless, on several occasions, i believe i picked up elements and themes that run through both these great works, and an answer in a stephen donaldson interview with sf signal i recently read supported this:"in any case, it would be foolish to pretend that i wasn’t profoundly affected by lord of the rings. tolkien’s example convinced me that fantasy was worth writing. but in various ways i was also inspired by writers as diverse as alfred bester (the stars my destination), robert heinlein (glory road), and frank herbert (dune)."sometimes, especially when reviewing, it is far too easy to concentrate on the negatives but it is the positives upon which i would like to focus. for those new to the series, lord foul's bane was first written in 1977 and formed the first part of a trilogy entitled the chronicles of thomas covenant the unbeliever (now referred to as the first chronicles of …). as the book begins covenant, a novelist and happily married man with an infant son, is stricken with leprosy and after having the last two fingers of his right hand removed he is taught that leprosy is incurable and that his only chance of survival is to reject all hope of relief. he returns to his home, haven farm, to find his wife has divorced him and fled to protect their son from his illness. as he struggles to go on living as a leper he begins to suffer bouts of unconsciousness in which he appears to have adventures in a magical realm known only as the land, where he is greeted as a reincarnated ancient hero due to his missing fingers and his wedding ring of white gold, which is a talisman of great power. covenant chooses to interpret this magical place as an hallucination and responds with unbelief. the land has an ancient enemy, lord foul the despiser, who dreams of destroying the arch of time and the lords of revelstone seem incapable of defeating him. both the lords and foul seek covenant's allegiance to achieve their ends.from mithil stonedown and its sturdy stowndowers to revelstone and its austere lords, from soaring woodhelven and its lore to mount thunder and its feared cavewights and ur-viles - donaldson's creations are a joy, rich and vibrant, and the writing that brings them to life eloquent and descriptive. but of course there is always covenant, the man who is pivotal to all that unfolds - but why did donaldson make him not only a leper, but also a man so very difficult to like?"i had conceived the ambition to write a fantasy novel about a “real” character who rejected the fantasy experience (no doubt partly in an attempt to answer my own questions about why fantasy matters); and it occurred to me one day that if i wanted my character to have any true substance, he would have to be someone with very personal reasons to prefer fantasy (a leper, in this case) - someone for whom integrity is more important than convenience or easy gratification. and, of course, integrity is a journey. we don’t simply have it. first, we have to discover it. then we have to earn it."lord foul's bane is a very complex piece of work but at heart a good old-fashioned tale of epic fantasy. it can not be read without the reader's constant concentration, it is adult fantasy fiction and the casual fantasy reader may need a period of time in which to become accustomed to this - there are no lovable hobbits to ease you into the story, here you have a man that has lost everything, a man who is angry, bitter, an outcast from the life and the world he knew. but the effort spent in reading this now ten-book series is rewarded ten-times over and i recommend that every fantasy fan read this seminal work.10/10 a very complex work of fantasy, tough going but rewarding.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
22 positive reader review(s) for lord foul's bane
50 positive reader review(s) in total for the chronicles of thomas covenant the unbeliever series







lord foul's bane reader reviews

alistair from australia
my friend wayne first introduced me to this series in '78 and after reading the first few chapters i put the book down – i did not enjoy it and i couldn’t understand why he was so enthusiastic about this story - about 6 months later, having nothing to read i started it again and was thoroughly taken in, mesmerised, hooked, addicted etc etc etc… when i finally got hold of 'the illearth war' i reread 'lord fouls bane' again ( to refresh my memory) before reading book 2. then 'the power that preserves' came out so i reread the first two books (again to refresh my memory). what an incredible story!!!!!! - and, i was so satisfied with what i had read. (later you’ll realise why). when telling my friends ( or even strangers i met in bookstores ) about this series i would first ask them have they read 'the lord of the rings', if yes, then i would reply that that is the child's version of a brilliant story - and they should now read the adult version ( i used that analogy as they both follow similar lines - a bit weakly - but similar lines, anyway i considered 'the chronicles' a far superior story). 45 years later i still use that analogy...…. anyway, back to 1980 when shock! horror! 'the wounded land' came out, ( what there’s more to this story). i bought the book, reread the first 3 books first and settled into the start of what was a second trilogy. when i first read the first 3 books i fully accepted that that was the whole story, - and now the whole ‘land' has been opened up again, yeah – i’m into that, - will it be as good? – surprisingly so – yes. loved the book! but now i had to wait 2 years for the next book and then another year for the third book ( and as you have probably guessed, each time a new book came out i reread all the previous books first. so i’ve now read the two chronicles – let’s say, by 1984, so for the next 35 years( about) i still tell people i meet ( when we’re talking about books) about this series. so, of course in 2004 when the first book of ‘the last chronicles of thomas covenant’ appeared on the shelf, i did a double take – how could stephen improve or even expand on the second chronicles, so of course i bought the book - ( now, i normally wait for the softback but splurged and bought the hardback), i read the book and wasn’t disappointed. but still i now had to wait another 3 years for the next book. ( how long does he need to write this series – ( insert frustration here)), and then another 3 years for the next book ( more frustration ) – that’s another 3 books and it’s still not finished ( some trilogy – looks like a 4 book trilogy). finally, the last book appeared and as i had bought the last 3 in hardback i also bought this one in hard back as well. i read about a 1/3 of the book and lost it – i eventually bought it again in 2020 when i realised i had never finished the series (at least covid was good for something) and i am finally reading the last book of a magnificent, extraordinary, something to get lost in, series – i will post my final review when i finish this book. ( if, i remember ) but, at the moment – do yourself a really good favour and read this series. you can read ‘the chronicles of thomas covenant’ ( the first 3 books) as a complete story and be well satisfied. or you can read ‘the chronicles of thomas covenant’ ( the first 3 books) as well as ‘the second chronicles of thomas covenant’ ( the next 3 books) and be just as satisfied – and sit back and say - yep, that was a really good story. but whether you read: the ‘chronicles of thomas covenant’ or the ‘second chronicles of thomas covenant’ or the ‘last chronicles of thomas covenant’ you will say: i think i’m going to have to read that again.
10/10 (2020-08-05)







duncan from uk
it deserves a high rating due its quality as a story and its strangeness ? why is strangeness important - well take our world and the beliefs of its human inhabitants - my human friend's beliefs about our world and the universe that planet earth resides in vary from simple its what you see to the matrix type weirdness ? so a book that purports to be significant must be a good story which it is and must be exceptionally strange ? i know of no human friend who is not educated in philosophy, mathematics and physics that believes even my simple reading from standard modern science text books eg the concept of infinity and its consequences - they just laugh and humor me because it sounds strange and unbelievable ? so the strangeness of the lord foul universe is a must - although giving forces human names and characters is of course only a device for a story ? russell once remarked that if indeed the universe was in some way sentient it would not be anything that humans would understand it would be strange ? i must admit that donaldson does seem reluctant to let lord foul be defeated and keeps introducing new characters and plots - but that fits science in the sense that every discovered new feature of our observable universe or our theoretical research seems to require a new quantum field or a new way of understanding and every author wants the series to continue ? when the author of sherlock holmes tried to end his character the public insisted he carry on. donaldson can be puzzling but that does not detract although it can be exhausting for the reader. i am only puzzled that the creator does seem a bit sidelined in the stories whereas foul gets all the good lines but i guess its best for we poor mortals to try and puzzle out creation whether it is in the world of the reader or the world of covenant >
10/10 (2019-03-16)







kathy from australia
this is a great book. thomas covenant is unlikeable in this novel, but he probably has the most amazing character arc in fiction. how can one go from so disliking a character to loving him? that's what donaldson does in the course of 6 novels. i can see why people are turned off by this novel, but there really is a lot to miss out on if you don't continue.
9/10 (2017-04-10)







ron from united states
i read this 30 years ago when in high school and it made an avid reader out of me. donaldson'so mastery of metaphor and overall style bring characters to life and give events a livid and almost tangible quality. many will say that thomas covenant is an unlikable character; however, they miss this point. i missed it as a kid and only recognized in my reread as an adult...covenant is like almost all of us. he is the epitome of throw away people (not that we are, too). have you ever felt rejected? have you ever faced discrimination? have you ever been judged? in covenant there is a character almost all can relate to on some level. he's repeatedly challenged with expectations from others which would be utterly unrealistic, fantastic to be exact, that's sobering that again, many readers have experienced to a degree. donaldson's portrayal of his protagonist is realistic. sometimes when we fall into a pool of pity, when we adopt a victim attitude, we are unlikely too, but this allows us to relate to covenant. the life of the land and the rich character development that takes place in lfb are sure to lure the reader in and help you feel for the individuals and their plot lines. i think lfb, and the series overall, also deals with a very adult issue in a way that portrays it as the ugly and horrific act it is that deeply harms people's lives, and not just the immediate victim. it does not let you forget about it entirely. i'd give lfb a 10, but donaldson tends to be too pedantic and, if you're liker me, you'll be reaching for a dictionary/ thesaurus more often than you should be, and that's not due to a small vocabulary. as a kid i was happy for the challenge to expand my vocabulary. as an adult it's just an interruption in a fantastic read. ok...9.5!
9/10 (2017-01-11)







vince from uk
epic quest, the search for the truth inside us all, characters that you love and hate in equal measures. each gritty footstep taken in the land is felt keenly, ah the land who would not sell their soul to live there. and above all this, striding like a broken colossus is covenant, a uniquely flawed man, a harbinger of hope and hell balanced on a knife edge. sometimes you want to scoop his eyes out with a rusty spoon for not seeing what is so apparent, sometimes you weep for his abject loneliness, in the end you scramble to the book shelf to read the next installment of a unique and epic story. i have just finished the tenth volume of this series and yes it does have highs and lows but i am a better person for having been on this journey with the paradoxical tc.
10/10 (2016-01-30)







clare from australia
thanks for the review and the comments. i have just started the first book and, to be honest, am struggling to enjoy it so far. (having just finished cormac mccarthy's the road i probably should have picked something a bit lighter!) however i will persevere and see if i become a "love it" or "hate it". i will repost when (if?) i finish.
10/10 (2015-08-20)







kevin  from minnesota 
an all-time favorite of mine. it is difficult for me to understand the criticism of donaldson's narrative style or character development. in my opinion donaldson is a master writer, and i have thoroughly enjoyed his fantasy, sci-fi and mystery novels. he has succeeded in all the genres. the covenant books are filled with beautiful lyricism and description. covenant may be a flawed character, but an epic hero nonetheless.
10/10 (2015-07-21)







mackenzie from scotland
i have to admit that the first of the thomas covenant series books were stressful, irritating and sometimes unbearable - but to me these feeling signify a good story telling where the writers character can cultivate you so much to extract these emotions from you. i persevered with the books and fell very much in love with the series. with every book i grew to love the land and was entranced with the way donaldson gave us, as the reader, complex issues and feelings towards the anti-hero thomas covenant. the books are full of dark contradictions but its donaldson's ability to stretch his readers understanding and emotions that has made him, in my opinion, one of the best fantasy writers the world has scene. my only advice to new readers is to persevere with the books as it will very much be worth the love and respect you gain for donaldson and his characters.(you echo my own sentiments exactly mackenzie. it's been a struggle at times but hugely rewarding. i'm on fatal revenant now and the books have left an indelible mark on me - lee @ fantasy book review)
10/10 (2015-02-20)







xavier from austria
this series is not for everyone. it is by turns beautiful and grim, inspiring and depressing. echoes of the lord of the rings but overall even darker. and covenant is a very difficult man to root for but i think this was a master stroke as it shows what one of us would really be like if we were transported to a magical, almost utopian land. it would show our pettiness, our grasping to material wealth, our complete disregard for nature and the planet. if steven erikson's malazan books worked for you then i am confident you will appreciate this book and the series (now standing at 10 books) as a whole. a must for fantasy fans.
9/10 (2012-12-14)







ivan from texas
i have read these books multiple times over the years. although i concede that they may be a bit difficult for some people, these books stand amongst the best fantasy works of all times. be warned, if you are looking for a sunny and bland book where the heroes are easy to understand and the story is pre-digested for you then these books are not for you. this is not snow white and the seven dwarves, this is a much darker fantasy. however, if you enjoy challenging literature that is both complex and satisfying, these books are definitely for you. though the ten 9 books published so far (eagerly awaiting the last one) i have at times laughed, cried, been exasperated with the characters, fallen in love with them, hated them, been exalted an exhausted but never been bored. these books will run through your emotions and capture your imagination like few others can even if you have read them multiple times. i am thankful i was introduced to them by my brother who gifted me lord foul's bane many years ago. these books have enriched my life and sustained me though dark periods in my life. i have an immense appreciation for mr. donaldson and even though i understand that all good things must come to an end, my only regret about this series is that there are only 10 books that give me the opportunity to visit the land.
10/10 (2012-06-18)







aaron from bangkok
thomas covenant got me hooked on the genre. from the first pages of "unclean" you get dragged along in a story built on self doubt and unbelief. donaldson gives us a difficult task, and at times a chore, to follow a character who is so extremely flawed. you get frustrated and even angry at covenant, but the story itself and the description of the land is wonderful. i would not tell anybody you must read this series, but i suggest you sit down, take some deep breaths, and give it a try. the rewards are truly there for all to see.
9/10 (2012-05-29)







chuck from australia
read it twice over the years,will read it again one day. it's different. funny thing could never get into lord of the rings. chasing the last book now, will it ever end??
9/10 (2012-03-01)







fabiane from braisl
i realy loved this book and the whole series.
donaldson's series are totaly diferene first because thomas covenant escapes the stereotype of the hero good guy who has no doubt. he is a normal person who have fear, doubts, he makes mistakes and suffer for it. i really loved it.

10/10 (2012-03-01)







steve d from braintree
i could not put this book down.
8/10 (2012-03-01)







robert from nebraska
this is one of those series of books that i think of fondly from my youth that comes to mind when i think of fantasy books (the other important set of work for me was brook's shannara material). i thoroughly enjoyed these books and remember anticipating each new release. but i also remember being disappointed in the last book or two in the overall series. after 20 years, i plan to re-read this and see what i think of it nowadays.
8/10 (2012-03-01)







simon from devon
a real tough read, but truly worth the journey. once i realised that the real hero of the story is the land itself i became totally immersed in the world that donaldson creates. genius.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







joan from london
i read all six books of the same series.... my opinion... brilliant... could not put them down.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







shell from winchester
a fantasy that works on more than one level - an exploration of the psyche and the psychological conflicts of a man who suffers leprosy - either a new world is drawn or the inner world is exposed - fantastic.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







paul from australia
this was the series (after tolkien) that started my obsession with fantasy. brilliant first 2 series.
this ain't your cutesy fantasy but my god it's good. if you read fantasy and haven't read this do so!
9/10 (2012-03-01)







eric from sydney
behind tolkien, donaldson is one of the grandmasters of fantasy. both the covenant series are some of the most briliant fantasy writing i've read in 35 years of being an avid fantasy fan. though the first book was difficult to get through, his gap series was also an excellent foray into sci-fi. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







robert from folsom,ca
this book is different. if you want cute talking animals and friendly elves, pick another title. i highly recommend the series, but not for the faint of heart. a rating of 8 was awarded.
8/10 (2012-03-01)







anon from unknown
no review was submitted but a rating of 8 was awarded.
8/10 (2012-03-01)









9.3/10 from 23 reviews

all stephen donaldson reviews

chronicles of thomas covenant the unbeliever (chronicles of thomas covenant the unbeliever)
lord foul's bane (chronicles of thomas covenant the unbeliever: book 1)
the illearth war (chronicles of thomas covenant the unbeliever: book 2)
the power that preserves (chronicles of thomas covenant the unbeliever: book 3)
the wounded land (chronicles of thomas covenant the unbeliever: book 4)
the one tree (chronicles of thomas covenant the unbeliever: book 5)
white gold wielder (chronicles of thomas covenant the unbeliever: book 6)
mirror of her dreams (mordant's need: book 1)
a man rides through (mordant's need: book 2)
the runes of the earth (the last chronicles of thomas covenant: book 1)
fatal revenant (the last chronicles of thomas covenant: book 2)
against all things ending (the last chronicles of thomas covenant: book 3)
the last dark (the last chronicles of thomas covenant: book 4)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




harry potter and the philosopher's stone by jk rowling
(harry potter: book 1)





the philosopher’s stone is the first in j.k. rowling’s harry potter series of seven novels that have made her the most successful literary author of all time, selling in excess of 400 million copies world-wide. the books are read and enjoyed by children and adults alike and have also been made into hugely popular films.do the harry potter books live up to the hype? when i first began reading the philosopher’s stone i was immediately struck by how good - and laugh-out-loud funny - the humour was. you usually need to read a terry pratchett novel to ensure constant laughter throughout but rowling has managed to infuse this book with a lovely wit and charm that will both amuse and delight adults and children.here is an example, with the ending being particularly good:"harry was frying eggs by the time dudley arrived in the kitchen with his mother. dudley looked a lot like uncle vernon. he had a large, pink face, not much neck, small, watery blue eyes and thick, blond hair that lay smoothly on his thick, fat head. aunt petunia often said that dudley looked like a baby angel – harry often said that dudley looked like a pig in a wig."harry potter and the philosopher’s stone: the vanishing glassthere are characters in this book that will remind us of all the people we have met. everybody knows or knew a spoilt, overweight boy like dudley or a bossy and interfering (yet kind-hearted) girl like hermione. a large number of the younger readers will also be able to easily identify with harry, especially with his initial feelings of isolation and not belonging, and then through to his excitement at finally leaving that life behind in favour of one where he belongs and will be happy.when harry begins his first term at hogwarts (a wizarding school) he is not alone in being overawed:‘yeh’ll get yer firs’ sight of hogwarts in a sec,’ hagrid called over his shoulder, ‘jus’ round this bend here.’there was a loud ‘oooooh!”the narrow path had opened suddenly on to the edge of a great black lake. perched atop a high mountain on the other side, its windows sparkling in the starry sky, was a vast castle with many turrets and towers.harry potter and the philosopher’s stone: the journey from platform nine and three-quarters hogwarts is a truly magical place, not only in the most obvious way but also in all the detail that the author has gone to describe it so vibrantly. it is the place that everybody wishes they could of gone to when they where eleven. and there many adventures befall the trio (harry, ron and hermione) and the stone in the book's title is centre to all that happens. the story builds towards and exciting conclusion that has the ultimate feel-good factor.j.k. rowling should be commended for getting so many people reading and excited by books. the biggest surprise must be the effect that this novel had on the adult population, both male and female - at the time the books were published many a commuting train was spotted with harry potter books providing world-weary workers with a wonderful sense of escapism. this book is highly recommended to anybody between the ages of 8 and 80.is all the hype about the harry potter books justified? in a word, yes, the books are a joy to read and possibly the most rewarding young adult’s book since the hobbit.9/10 a rewarding read, a classic for children.


buy on amazon

review by amanda white
136 positive reader review(s) for harry potter and the philosopher's stone
380 positive reader review(s) in total for the harry potter series







harry potter and the philosopher's stone reader reviews

noona from australia
this book is satisfyingly good, the entire idea of having a young boy who’s parents die in the hands in an blood thirsty super villain isn’t that unique... *cough* *cough* *batman*. but she makes it so original with hoggwards and the mirror makes this book so good
9/10 (2021-11-30)







athena-jayde from new zealand
best book of all time love the writing and the dream j.k rowling is my all time favorite writer
10/10 (2021-08-24)







anon from uk
i never thought i'd enjoy harry potter so much! it's become my favourite series and absolutely love the magic and everything about the book honestly. you can never get bored and all the chapters always leave you asking tons of questions! love it! p.s. joanne rowling- i love your books. keep on doing, what you're doing! you are such an amazing author and angel. 😃
10/10 (2021-07-26)







samuel from australia
could not tear my eyes away from this book.
9/10 (2021-06-21)







haniya from pakistan
harry potter is the best english novel i read.
10/10 (2021-06-15)







priyal from india
we all know that the book is fab, but have you ever wondered , what if j.k. rowling ended the book with the the last line saying- '' and then harry woke up from the dream lying in the cupboard under the stairs....''
10/10 (2021-05-25)







anon from uk
great book for young and old, i have read it so many times i could say it word for word. i think that it is one of the best books that i have ever read.
9/10 (2021-01-30)







anonymous from rather not say
an interesting beginning for the award-winning series. this, unlike the other harry potters, wasn’t that good. nearly each on got better. but some kids may find this book boring and lose interest. it just doesn’t have the action and sci-fi like the rest. philosopher’s stone: 6/10 chamber of secrets: 7/10 prisoner of azkaban: 9/10 goblet of fire: 9/10 order of the phoenix: 10/10 half-blood prince: 6/10 deathly hallows: 9/10 cursed child: 2/10 fantastic beasts and where to find them: 5/10 the tales of beedle the bard: 4/10
6/10 (2020-12-28)







beauty queen  from india
it was very nice book. i am still reading it even after 100 times. it interesting you see i am a fast reader so i completed the book in 1 day. it tells about how harry potter a wizard and how his parents were murdered so he had only one relative his mom's sister aunt petunia and her family. then a letter arrives at his house but his uncle won't let him see it but a giant named hagrid the gamekeeper says the truth that he was an wizard like he studied in the school hogwarts the magic school and made some friends too. but he needed to save the philosopher stone from the deadly wizard named lord voldemort but the problem was his least favorite teacher snape who harry thinks works for voldemort but that isn't the end but i don't want to be a surprise spoiler so read it yourself i felt it was a good book. how about you?
10/10 (2020-11-30)







anoymous from somewhere
very good book. i had read it for more than 5 times.
10/10 (2020-11-30)







anonymous from somewhere
it’s ok. there’s been better harry potters. but artemis fowl is more enjoyable.
7/10 (2020-11-25)







mia  from australia 
this is the summary harry potter he a kid on his eleventh birthday a big giant man name hagrid told him that he was a wizard and his parents were witch and wizard too he never knew that he was famous. he started at hogwarts. harry made some new friends name ron weasley and hermione granger there found a three head dog name fluffy and there need to find out what in that trap door let the magic begin. this is plot when harry potter start hogwarts school of wizard and witchery and find out what happen to his parents and he find the murder of his parents his name is voldemort. this is imagery and symbolism that in harry potter has a lot of bright colours and some dark colours. book is mostly about how harry starts and through the year of hogwarts. one of the may symbols are harry scar because he the boy who lived right after voldemort disappeared. themes are magic, friendship and love because it shows the magic in hogwarts, friendship between harry, ron and hermione and love between harry and his mother and father who harry lose.
10/10 (2020-10-30)







bill from uk
harry potter are the greatest books ever. i really enjoy these books the most book i like is the prisoner of azkaban because buckbeak who is a magical creature is cute and the best it is the best book i have.
10/10 (2020-08-31)







sanu from australia
it enthralled me and i finished all the books in grade 3. but i re-read them and still do! these wonderful masterpieces are perfect for kids and adults. take a look at it.
10/10 (2020-08-29)







samiya  from bangladesh 
only one thing can say, the book is awesome and every moment and every chapter is incredible. it is the best book i ever read.
10/10 (2020-08-17)







bill from uk
harry potter are the greatest books ever. i really enjoy these books, the book i likemost  is the prisoner of azkaban because buckbeak, who is a magical creature, is cute and the best. it is the best book i have.
10/10 (2020-08-15)







rose from holly wood 
i loved it
8/10 (2020-08-14)







maria from pakistan
this book has had me taken into another land in which i remain till now...even though i finished the whole series! i simply cannot get enough of harry potter and i highly recommend this book if you guys love fantasy and a bit of wizard action!😍😍😘😊
10/10 (2020-07-19)







rachel from united kingdom
simply the best!
10/10 (2020-07-13)







anna from united states
i don't like fantasy books. this is my one time i have to go against it. harry potter is in my top 2 favorite books of all time. it's amazing with all the unique things that you see around the magic world. you will have to think again when you chose a favourite book.
10/10 (2020-05-21)







suzanna from wales
one of the best book series ever!! charming and witty, you just cant put the book down.
10/10 (2020-05-10)







nicole fernando from sri lanka
harry’s perfectly normal life at number 4 privet drive becomes extraordinary when he finds out that he is a wizard and hogwarts school of witchcraft and wizardry will teach him all he needs to know.ignoring his aunt’s and uncle’s(mr. and mrs.dursley) screams of protests harry ventures into the wizarding world. but even in the wizarding world bad things happen like, the evil wizard ,voldemort who killed who many innocent people( including harry’s parents ) coming back to life.even though harry escaped from voldemort once, harry is not certain he can do it again.join harry potter and his newly found friends ron weasly and hermione granger to save the wizarding world.can they do it? find out in harry potter and the philosopher’s stone . this book is great for all ages.the author j.k rowling created a world full of adventure,fun and mystical places and creatures.this is only the first book from a set of seven.people all around the world would love this series.this book is one of the greatest books i have ever read.
9/10 (2020-04-28)







anna from uk
it’s very good because i enjoy it and it makes me wanna read it a lot and see what happens next.
10/10 (2020-04-28)







anjitha from india
harry potter and the philosopher's stone is one of my favourite books in the harry potter series. reading this book has made me crazy about harry potter and i wish to be one among the magical community. i can't imagine how thrilled i would be if i get a letter from dumbledore saying that i am admitted to hogwarts!!!!!!!
10/10 (2020-03-22)







cira from canada
this book made me feel like i was taken to another land. i love it and others should too. i really enjoyed the humpr and thrill that were somehow mixed together into a perfect story. j.k rowling has that little touch that makes everyone love her books. everyone needs to buy it!
10/10 (2020-03-04)







risha from india
one of the best books i've read. highly recommend it. it's for all ages and it's the best! humour, thrill, action and a little love. a combo of everything.
10/10 (2020-02-19)







amber from india
it was the best book i had ever read. the first book was a blast. j.k rowling has really outdone herself this time.i am reading the 7th book now, and it seems to be really interesting. young readers, i am advising you to start reading harry potter, as it is truly amazing and interesting to boost your imagination..... the magical world of harry potter is includes dangerous, fun and legendary adventures, starring hermione granger, harry potter and ron weasley, who are three best friends in this fabulous story. they fought together against many fantastic and dangerous creatures, and came across many obstacles. finally, it was the time, for harry potter to fight against the most powerful, dangerous wizard all the magical people could think of. you wanna know more about this legendary adventure, then reading the harry potter series is the best way possible.
10/10 (2020-02-16)







jotaro from japan
it is very good.
10/10 (2020-01-20)







samit from india
truly amazing
9/10 (2020-01-14)







neil from malta
purely amazing.
10/10 (2019-03-31)







sofia from mexico 
it was good.
10/10 (2019-02-26)







ava from australia
get ready to wave your wand, for this wizardry adventure. it start off with a young boy not knowing that he's a wizard until his 11th birthday, on his journey to hogwarts harry potter (daniel radcliffe) makes amazing friends with hermione granger (emma watson) and ron wealsy (rupert grint). on learning how to prounce the famous spells like wingardium leviosa, lumos and alohomara, but in every story there's a troubling part were harry fights for his life.
10/10 (2018-11-21)







jade from uk
this book is the only book i read because nothing else is interesting for me and i could never stop re-reading it.by now i must of read the harry potter series 20 times,they are just wow and amazing.i would recommend this book to anyone!
10/10 (2018-10-27)







aoife from ireland
just perfect.
10/10 (2018-10-04)







amaal from austrailia
it is definitely the best book i've ever read! i need to read all!!!! :) so amazing! i now know 100% understand why j.k. rowling is the most successful and richest author there is! 9.9 stars!
9/10 (2018-07-30)







palak from india
i have read harry potter book it was amazing i like it
7/10 (2018-06-18)







sofia from usa
harry potter and the philospher's stone is one of the best series i have read it more than 8 times
9/10 (2018-06-07)







namratha from india
this is amazing i love it 😙😙😙😙😙😙
10/10 (2018-05-10)







shravani  from india
i really loved harry potter series. it is one of the greatest fictions for children. the writing, the character development is very good. i really liked it.
10/10 (2018-04-15)







harry from australia
best book series if you ask me. i have read each book over 15 times except the order of the phoenix and goblet of fire. jk rowling's writing is better than any other writing. i love emma watson / hermione granger. i have loved harry potter since i was in year 2.
10/10 (2018-04-04)







manya rathore from india
it is the most interesting book i have ever read and it is a wizard story and is a inspirative story.
10/10 (2018-03-30)







carissa  from singpore
i love harry potter so much that i can read the whole book series like about 20 times. i think that everyone should a lest try reading harry potter .
10/10 (2018-03-19)







mubeen from india 
when i started reading harry potter and the philosophers stone i was unable to stop myself by reading i read it continously and i hd cmpltd it in just one day without getting bored.....these are the amazing book series i hv ever read....i would luv to read it again and again..
10/10 (2018-03-05)







juveriya from india
i love the harry potter series
10/10 (2018-03-01)







katie from 1 direction fandom
get ready for swish and flick and wingardium leviosa! the best part is the last against lord voldemort.
10/10 (2018-01-15)







imogen from uk
good book =-)
10/10 (2017-12-13)







electra from greece
i love harry potter and i love the philosopher's stone so much because it is the book where all the magic began.
10/10 (2017-12-10)







olivia myers from australia
i love harry potter but i would rather watch the move than read the book :}
9/10 (2017-12-04)







heramb from australia
harry potter was the best book series i've ever read and it is beast. if i could i would rate this 2,000,000 stars out of ten!
10/10 (2017-11-22)







ben from uk
definitely advise reading these books.
10/10 (2017-11-19)







sanjanaa from india 
i like harry potter.
10/10 (2017-11-07)







thomas from america
amazing! recommend it!!!
10/10 (2017-10-18)







aaradhana from india
whatever it has use for us , whatever it teaches , friendship , believe in magic , confidence in ourselves , whatever , its the craziest thing i have ever read or ever known in my life...i just go mad and imagine myself in that world and actually i wont ever be tired of reading it if its even 100 times 😃😃😃😇😇😌😌 i just love it n u r the most imp part of life-review of others who just shown me that its what makes the harry potter the best story ever atleast fr me... its my life. if i would even be of 50 yrs or more i won't stop admiring it and readinb... yes i am not the best fan but fr me its the best book/series 😁😁 love u harry pottrr stories.... and yeah 1 thing i forgot to tell u i am really a great fan of draco malfoy/tom felton....😍😍�...😄......was that too much to read!!!!�......
10/10 (2017-10-02)







rachana from india
what a nice book it was!
10/10 (2017-09-22)







keira from canada
this book review is magical and helps me understand what this book is about. also in my class we are making book reviews and you have helped me alot with exmaples! thanks.
10/10 (2017-06-29)







frutopia10 from new zealand
it was awesome! a book that is unforgettable! even though the series gets better and better this book is a all time favorite for me.
10/10 (2017-06-29)







hemanth from india
this is the book that everyone has to read in their lifetime and the graphics are awesome. thanks to j. k. rowling for giving us a awesome book and after reading i realised why the book is so famous.
10/10 (2017-06-27)







akash from india
this book is so amazing. that i can't narrate and ys i have decided to know what people are so much crazy about these series. at last the thinking of writer is lunatically awesome!!!!
9/10 (2017-06-14)







abcd1234 from israel
an amazing start for an equally amazing series . the plot is immersive, it takes you by the hands and pulls you into the books. i read the whole seven books in a row. must read!!!
10/10 (2017-06-05)







lily from australia
omg! this book is amazing. jk rowling is really good with words i have read this book 100 times i love it keep up the good work jk
10/10 (2017-06-05)







sahla from uk
the magic begins!!! this book is bewitchingly beautiful. i have read all of the harry potter books including the cursed child and i have to admit that this one never gets old! all book lovers across the world, children or adults, can enjoy this book. honestly i believe no one can ever say they hate this book true to their heart unless their pathological liars.
10/10 (2017-04-24)







annie from india
this book is amazing. i really like that and i think everyone also like this boo . this book show a philosopher's stone that amazing and their wand spells superb . thanks to j.k rowling that gives us very interesting book.
10/10 (2017-03-22)







savannah from australia
this book is amazing.
10/10 (2017-02-11)







satwika  from india 
amazing!!! i love the book. it is my all time favorite. i am dieing to go to a magical school like hogwarts. i am inspired to write a fantasy novel.
10/10 (2017-01-01)







harry potter fan😍 from hogwarts
i love this book. i saw the movie and have read the book a million times now!!! (lol)😍😃😘
10/10 (2016-12-09)







ahmed from saudi arabia
awesome book but chapter one was very boring plzz in the next series dont write all those kind of stuffs. plzz begin the story neatly and nicely
10/10 (2016-12-06)







sohini  from india
harry potter and the philosopher's stone is written by j.k rowling. even by reading this small summary i am well liked of the story. and really from now i like harry potter.
10/10 (2016-12-05)







n from ireland
amazing 😁
10/10 (2016-11-28)







sophie from uk
it was fantastic!
10/10 (2016-11-26)







maisha from india
it's a fabulous book, i had heard about it from my friends, and when i found it very interesting. it was like i am in the story watching everything happening. i will now start to read the second book. from my point of view, i feel that jk rowling is the best writer in the world in this generation.
10/10 (2016-11-20)







david from us
the first book in the harry potter series has much going for it but i think it is the humour that stands out most for. it is many things but i just found it plain funny. consistently. this is fantasy in its purest form and it offers wonderful escapement and wish-fulfilment. when a book becomes as massively popular as this those who do not like it tend to really hate it. but make up your own mind - if a school for wizards and oodles of adventure and excitement sound like your type of thing then your not going to find much better than this.
10/10 (2016-08-11)







thomas from america
great story mixed with fantastic world - building combine to form a literary classic of immense proportions.
10/10 (2016-08-07)







emma from america
chamber of secrets is the classic that started a classic story about the boy who lived. the book features well rounded characters, a mysterious plot, and heartwarming world-building.
10/10 (2016-08-07)







jessica from australia
it's amazing! i recommend this book to all ages ❤️
10/10 (2016-07-27)







indrajeet from india
best book in my life i have ever read before and i have all the version in my home and i read it in leisure time.
10/10 (2016-07-23)







sindhu from india
this wonderful book takes us on a magical journey you can't help falling in love with. the plot, the characters, the tiny details that rowling so masterfully brings together... mindblowing. easily the best book series i've ever read. recommended for everybody- young and old.
10/10 (2016-07-18)







ledi from albania
i love this book because it is a very interesting, mysterious and thrilling book.
10/10 (2016-05-29)







lavisha malik from india
i like this book. i thank the writer to write such a interesting type of book.
7/10 (2016-05-13)







houssem from tunisia
what an amazing and fascinating book ! wow. the journey passed so fast, how you dive into the pages,sink in the events and travel with the characters, how fantastic that is, purely wonderful ^^
10/10 (2016-04-15)







sashreek havelia from india
this was an amazing book and was my second novel ever. i find myself in a stronghold of books just because of this wonderfully written and out of the box book. i must congratulate author j.k.rowling on the success of all her books and her skill as an author.
10/10 (2016-02-25)







disha from india
it is very nice.
10/10 (2016-02-24)







harry  from uk
i quite liked the book it was interesting i am now on the 2nd book of harry potter.
7/10 (2016-02-15)







trevor from us
the only people who don't like harry potter books are adults who seem to think that admitting they like harry potter makes them less of an adult. oh, it's a great children's book. stfu. it's not a great children's book. it's just a great book. period.
10/10 (2016-02-15)







safia ali from india
i just want to say that i am mad about this magical world as it did a great magic on my mind and heart. just love it!
10/10 (2016-01-12)







brychan from uk
an excellent book combining magic and reality in a sensational mix. j.k rowling has definitely succeeded in writing a brilliant book perfect for all ages. she has created a combination of happy, exciting and sad scenes to create an amazing book. if you have not already read the series then i definitely recommend that you read it as soon as possible. 9/10
9/10 (2016-01-06)







jasmine from india
this book is the best book i have read in a entire life. love u jk rowling.
9/10 (2015-12-29)







potter fan  from india 
good book but lacks action...
10/10 (2015-11-19)







navneet from india
it really is the most fantastic book which i have ever read in my life.
10/10 (2015-11-08)







michael anthony from us
great book!!! love it.
10/10 (2015-11-08)







himansh from india
great book! i had read this book almost 10 times but am not at all bored of it. people who feel bored are dumb. the only word for this book is - awesome!!! but the deathly hallows is the last part. i'll miss harry potter!!!
10/10 (2015-11-08)







#potterhead from pakistan
oh my god! these books are life. i just cannot describe how amazing they are. i've read them like a million times and i'm still not tired of them. favourite books and i also lovvveeeee the movies. potterhead for life!
10/10 (2015-11-04)







priyanka from dubai
it is such an awesome book, i felt so sad when it was coming to an end. i wish there were more than 7 harry potter books.
10/10 (2015-09-28)







gordon from england
it is very funny those who give this book a bad review have a very poor grasp of the english language. maybe they lack the intellegence to appreciate literature beyond wiser and chips? totally awesome book.
10/10 (2015-08-20)







faizan from india
excellent! wonderful! i love the series of harry potter. i have read it 7 times continuously. no words to appreciate. just enjoy the fantasy world of magic.
10/10 (2015-08-06)







sheepish from india
it is a nice and thrilling book which i had never read in my life. i love this book, thanx for this, bye.
10/10 (2015-07-20)







anakha from india
i love it. an amazing book!
10/10 (2015-07-06)







annastacia buckley from singapore
i absolutely loveee this book!! but, i would give it a 10 if the review was longer and have more coverage! awesome book!
9/10 (2015-06-26)







gregory from australia
this book was very impressive... how can people hate this book?
9/10 (2015-05-29)







xxpa from canada
great book, i couldn't put it down once i started reading this book. dark, amazing, fast and thrilling. a must read for all!
10/10 (2015-05-22)







jack from us
it's so good, thanks, you gave me an idea for a book review.
10/10 (2015-05-19)







gunnhildur from iceland
i loooooved this book! those dumb harry potter haters don´t understand what they are missing! i really hope j.k. rowling writes more of these, i have read all of them twice! maybe some stories about harry and ron doing aura business and other stuff!
10/10 (2015-05-12)







deepika from india
the only review is that they are... awesome!!!
10/10 (2015-04-23)







pinky from india
i can't give 10 points because it's not enough! hey! i've started reading chamber of secrets. after i completed reading i came to this website. ah! this book has fans all over the world.
10/10 (2015-04-03)







ramya from india
the best ever book i've read. fascinating, mesmerizing, so on!!! no other words i've to describe it. i normally hate books but this is the one which gave me the interest to read novels. i'll say this book is best because it's simply great great great... very great!!!
10/10 (2015-03-23)







trina from us
you can't put it down. i really recommend this book, it's filled with enjoyment and it's fascinating. ok, i don't want to say really smart words but just kick back your feet and read - it is so good.
10/10 (2015-03-11)







harry potter (wink wink) from privet drive 
i just finished it and it only took me a day.... i couldn't put it down it was amazing. i came to this website before i read it just to be sure it is worth while. if you're doing this now... stop and read it. no words can explain how good it is, i have already started chamber of secrets. there is so much detail in jk rowling's books! i recommend read this first then watch the movie. it's a great book for all ages :)
10/10 (2015-02-14)







aymar from canada
honestly loved the first the most. but the entire series was the best series i have a ever read!
10/10 (2015-02-04)







xavier from austria
although i am not totally enamoured by the series as a whole i think the philosopher's stone is a beautiful stand-alone book. it oozes charm and offers wish fulfilment on a level i've only ever encountered in the lord of the rings. at turns funny, heart-warming, exciting and full of tension it is a book that everyone should read. even if it is just to find out what the fuss is all about. a great book to read every christmas.
10/10 (2015-01-29)







ilma from bangladesh
the best book i've read!
10/10 (2015-01-06)







himika from india
this book taught me to love fantasy! i have read many books ever since, but hp for me is always special!
10/10 (2014-12-14)







rithu from india
the most exciting and interesting to all class of people.
10/10 (2014-11-26)







dang trung hieu from vietnam
great book!
10/10 (2013-07-05)







iris from mexico
it was the book that taught me to love reading. and discover the feeling not to be able to leave the chair until you have finished the book. highly recommended.
10/10 (2013-05-07)







harihara from india
no words can say how much i like this. the best series ever.
10/10 (2013-04-30)







sweata from india
it is a very thrilling book and also it has an interesting mythology... i loved this book very much... i thank j.k. rowling for writing such a great book...
10/10 (2012-09-27)







samantha from canada
amazing, gripping, magnificent.
10/10 (2012-09-26)







sathwik from india
harry potter is awesome. it has a lot of action.
10/10 (2012-09-14)







joshua from england
harry potter to some is a "boring", "overexaggerated" book with no life in it whatsoever. those people are absolute idiots. j.k. rowling's books are gripping, stunning and filled with so much literature. the magic between the pages is just thrilling, when i started reading this particular book in my youth - around 4 years ago, i'm 13 now - it was impossible to put down, i would not sleep until it was finished. lucky for me i'm a fast reader. in a few words harry potter is amazing: gripping and intelligent.
9/10 (2012-07-30)







shubham mk from india
just one word... classic!!! thumbs up!!
10/10 (2012-07-25)







sarah from pakistan
i liked this book very much, but this is my first book in the harry potter series and now i am very excited to read harry potter and the chamber of secrets which i've got to read in the school holidays but this book is really awesome and i hope chamber of secrets will also be as interesting as this!!!
9/10 (2012-07-17)







julia from america
i thought it was brill!
10/10 (2012-06-25)







jimwel from philippines
i really love the harry potter books, in fact i already finished reading all those 7 series and i really crave for more books. hope j.k. rowling make additional series but i don't suppose she will. but who knows?
10/10 (2012-06-09)







tom marvolo riddle from england
harry potter and the philosopher's stone is the best book of all time!
10/10 (2012-06-04)







ieuan jones from uk
i love harry potter but i think the first one lacks some action, where as the others have a lot of action from near the start, like chamber of secrets - there's the bit near the end where harry kills the basilisk and the prisoner of azkaban, there's the womping willow, whereas the first one isn't very exiting because all it is the first part of the end they get through that in like 2 mins of the film and then all they do is play chess and then harry goes on to get bought in a fire for like a minute and then all it is is him in bed and dumbledore steeling his sweet. so yeah, it isn't the best book but i think i would put it about 6th out of the eight :d
7/10 (2012-05-15)







amelia from australia
i love this book and all the other books in the series!! they are so engaging and make the reader actually want to be a wizard!! i am absolutely crazy about harry potter!! my room is filled with harry potter stuff because i am so in-love with these books!!!
10/10 (2012-04-30)







andy from reading
i have heard a lot of criticism of these books by quite a few adults, and whilst the writing may not be the best they are quite clearly wrong. these books have successfully engaged not just millions of young people across the world but millions of adults as well. any author who can achieve such a following must be doing something right. sometimes you just have to enjoy the story and go with the flow, yes there are shortcomings, however in this case it doesn't really matter if it gets millions of people engaged in reading.
7/10 (2012-03-22)







sarah from london
great! that's all i can say! 
9/10 (2012-03-01)







cat fitzpatrick from london
a children's classic, what more can you say? luckily i was eleven when the first book came out so i was the right age to follow them over the years, but i go back to them again and again even though i'm an adult because there's so much joy to be had in this magic, vivid world. it's funny, charming, heart-breaking and utterly wonderful.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







visenna from poland
really great, but still rather for younger readers.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







ankita from india
i love to watch the harry potter series.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







adam from gregory
j.k. rowling has sharp, lucid prose that carries harry potter beyond the realms of simple children's fantasy and into that of timeless literature. it's accessible and clear but at times it can be poetic and downright funny.
in addition to her concise writing style, harry potter is populated with interesting and relatable characters that the reader can (and will) fall in love with.
yes, you could argue the plot devices are nothing we haven't seen before. sometimes they even border on cliche. and yes, you could also argue that the villain is a bit too simple on the morality side of things. but none of this really matters, because the harry potter series are a helluva lot of fun to read and have a blast-ended-skrewt-sized heart.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







ian from lisburn
the greatest fantasy series of a generation. if you haven't read these books yet please come out of your cave and rejoin the rest of the world!!! they reminded me why i love reading and fantasy.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







sharnali from london
the harry potter books to me are awesome!!! they are legendary. j.k rowling is an inspiration, a william shakespeare of the present day! ;]
10/10 (2012-03-01)







leisale from vanuatu
the only word i have for the harry potter series is that they are... awesome!!!!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







kaan can  from turkey
harry potter's magical world was created perfectly by jk rowling. it's really interesting!!! the book series and movies are great!! this is a world phenomenon!! read these books!
9/10 (2012-03-01)







samir from oran
i wasn't going to read the harry potter series because i thought it was an overrated children's book. but one day, i decided that i had to see for myself why so many people liked this series. i couldn't be more wrong. it's an amazing fantasy series with a very solid and interesting mythology. the first book is great but the following books are even better.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







laura from england
i love harry potter, i started reading it in primary school and i keep re-reading the whole series - it's amazing! i love the magic of it all, it's so unique. i must have read the series through at least 6 times now, and i don't get bored! they are brilliant. i love all the characters, they're so interesting. this book is just....wow! not my favourite of the series but i still love it... i like it when they go through the trap door, it's hard to stop reading :)
10/10 (2012-03-01)









9.7/10 from 138 reviews

all jk rowling reviews

harry potter (harry potter)
the tales of beedle the bard (harry potter companion)
harry potter and the cursed child (harry potter companion)
harry potter and the philosopher's stone (harry potter: book 1)
harry potter and the chamber of secrets (harry potter: book 2)
harry potter and the prisoner of azkaban (harry potter: book 3)
harry potter and the goblet of fire (harry potter: book 4)
harry potter and the order of the phoenix (harry potter: book 5)
harry potter and the half-blood prince (harry potter: book 6)
harry potter and the deathly hallows (harry potter: book 7)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the gunslinger by stephen king
(the dark tower series: book 1)





in his first step towards the powerful and mysterious dark tower, roland encounters an alluring woman names alice, begins a friendship with jake, a kid from new york, and faces an agonizing choice between damnation and salvation as he pursues the man in black.few books can grab you and draw you into them quite as quickly and completely as the gunslinger. in my experience the first book in a trilogy/series can often take some time to immerse you as a reader, possibly due to the unfamiliarity of the characters but also the new location and place names, this is especially pertinent for high fantasy titles. but this book hooks you from the very first page, from the very first sentence even. and what a first sentence it is! in a recent podcast, josh and ryan discussed the finest opening sentences found in fantasy novels and the gunslinger received a deserved mention.the man in black fled across the desert and the gunslinger followed.the above line sums up the entirety of king's magnum opus, neatly encapsulating the obsession of the gunslinger and highlighting his single-minded determination. at this point you being to wonder - "who is the gunslinger?" and "who is the man in black?" - and it is these questions, which are soon joined by countless others, that provide the driving force of the series as you simply must know the answers and the author, in his very own inimitable style, slowly and carefully reveals the worlds and the peoples involved as he takes the reader on a journey that few who make it ever forget.i like stephen king the man (judging him by his interviews and author's notes) and i like stephen king the author. the dark tower series, along with his other works it and the stand, have a special place in my heart. however, because king is so popular, and so successful, he is also heavily criticised, sometimes by people who have not even read any of his work. but i hold king to be a master of the art of storytelling and characterisation, his books can often be hefty tomes which leads to cries of "filler" and "padding" from his naysayers but i've enjoyed almost everything i have read of his, regardless of size. and that brings me to an interesting point: it is sometimes forgotten that king is every bit as good at the short story format as he is at the thousand page epics and the dark tower series showcases his skills at both mediums. the gunslinger is a relatively short book, around the 200 page mark, and absolutely perfect for those wondering if the dark tower series might be for them. it can be read easily in a day and there is not the abundance of world building and characterisation that marks the beginning of many an epic fantasy series. these vital ingredients come of course, but gradually, at key-points during the tale's progress and never at the cost of momentum.in the gunslinger, stephen king introduces readers to one of his most enigmatic heroes, roland of gilead, the last gunslinger. he is a haunting figure, a loner, on a journey into good and evil, in a desolate world which echoes our own. in his first step towards the powerful and mysterious dark tower, roland encounters alice, begins a friendship with jake, a kid from new york, and faces an agonising choice between damnation and salvation as he pursues the man in black.the dark tower boasts some of the best characters in fantasy and the first instalment introduces to us the obsessive and lonely gunslinger, roland of gilead, and the innocent yet world-weary jake of new york. and as we read they form a tender and loving relationship that is pivotal to all that follows. from the beginnings in the desert and through events and flashbacks we then visit the doomed town of tull, visit gilead, see the new york of jake's when and finally travel through the mountains to the moment when roland faces the most difficult decision of his life.my advice is simple… if you are not sure whether or not embark on the dark tower series then i recommend that you give the gunslinger a go. it is great little book and if you are any where near as captivated as i was then you are in for a treat, as the next book, the drawing of the three, is my favourite of all, and sure to cement an ever-increasing love affair with the series.floresiensis, 9.5/10--when i saw alaisdair doing the re-read of one of his favourite series, narnia, i asked lee if i could do a the dark tower re-read, and lee said it was, “as if you could read my mind…” and we decided to do the re-read together with one book a month. the dark tower actually holds a great value for me since it was by this series that i took the first journey into the fantasy genre. i first read this series when i was still in high school, and have since then recommended it to many of my friends that this is for me easily one of the best fantasy series out there. i’ve only read the books twice, so i am looking forward with more than great pleasure to once re-live this great experience. and what is great about a re-read is that i do already know the series but in re-reading the events i hope to encounter things that i might have missed first time around.looking back over all the books that i have read so far, the gunslinger does start of with one of the best opening sentences: “the man in black fled across the desert, and the gunslinger followed”. no doubt about this, but i will probably come back to this sentence in later re-reads. there are so many things that directly spring to my mind when i first read this sentence: who is this man in black, why is he fleeing, who is the gunslinger? and why is he chasing the man in black? already from the first pages of the gunslinger you are thrown in a weird world, i still cannot decide if it is the past or the present. the universe that king has created around the dark tower is quite alluring and magnificent to say the least. looking at the characters, the setting and language used one might say this is a past time, set in a western world where gunslingers still reign, but looking at several objects placed within in this rich environment from nuclear slug, canned foodstuff and batteries, one might say it is nearing the future. added on top of this is the heavy and provoking reference that, “the world has moved on”. i’m still wracking my brain which it will be but i will probably lay it to the side and fully enjoy this magnificent universe to the fullest.in the gunslinger you follow the last gunslinger, roland deschain of gilead. his character is just marvellous, though when you encounter him first, the descriptions of his character are all throughout a third person narration, but once roland started to converse in the world i immediately liked his character. for me his strong personality is drawn from a few points in the series. too start off, the narration that king uses to describe him is just spot on, the third person narration is very strong and in the dialogues this totally comes to its rights creating a very engaging and addictive way of storytelling. another point where roland get’s a strong point from is his characters personality, he has a single quest to fulfil, finding the ever elusive dark tower but even in this quest he is haunted by many demons of his past. some of the tales of these demons are being told through flashbacks in the storyline, like his story in tull, which is macabre to say the least but also his coming of age, the relationship with his father and mother and his friends in gilead and in-world. all in all, roland’s character is for me just great, he is complex, straight to the point, compassionate and driven to reach his goals.in this first installment, roland goes through a lot of events, some more grim than others but they all never the less create a unique feeling to the storyline. i particularly liked to re-read about how roland met up with jake in the way station and their journey together through the mountain on the pushcart. similarly to this was the events that occurred in the town of tull, it is funny too see that many things do fall into place now after re-reading it again. lastly there was one part of the books that i now just fully have come to appreciate and that is the part of when roland is in palaver with the man in black, it is with the explanations of several things that this really is an eye-opener.as a first summary: i’m so pleased about having started this re-read that i just want to devour every other book in the series straight away! but i will rein myself in and try to extend this feeling over a year. the gunslinger is a unique reading experience that introduces you to a great and complex main protagonist, a rich and magnificent world that will enlarge itself at least a thousand fold as the series continues. all i can say, if you have not read this series, you are definitely missing out.jasper de joode, 10/10--the gunslinger is a great read and a similarly excellent listen, the audiobook, narrated by george guidall is one of the best you will find. you can read my thoughts on it here.10/10 stephen king does fantasy well, a worthy addition to the genre.


buy on amazon

reviews by floresiensis and jasper de joode
7 positive reader review(s) for the gunslinger
17 positive reader review(s) in total for the the dark tower series series







the gunslinger reader reviews

jake anderson from united states
review the gunslinger, what a book. the man in black fled across the desert and the gunslinger followed. as the first line in the book, the reader is left wondering, who is the man in black? who is the gunslinger? all we know is that the man in black fled across the desert and the gunslinger followed. to me, this first sentence highlights the mindset that the gunslinger has a single-minded determination, to find the man in black. the story introduces us to roland deschain, the gunslinger, and his adventures to find the man in black. during his travels he meets a man named brown who lets him spend the night. roland then tells the story of his travels to the town of tull. the gunslinger then proceeds to tell him that he was forced to kill the entire town. after leaving brown’s house, the gunslinger makes his way, until he comes across a boy in a house all by himself. this boy’s name is jake. it is revealed that jake was born in 70’s new york, and supposedly killed by the man in black. but jake cannot remember the full details as his memory is fading. jake then tags along with the gunslinger towards where the man in black is. jake and the gunslinger then camp out until later that night while jake is asleep, roland goes to meet the prophet that tells him, in order to reach the man in black, you must eventually kill jake. the gunslinger doesn’t take lightly to this fact as roland has started to care for the boy. eventually jake and the gunslinger meets with the man in black, follows him, until jake falls into a hole where roland holds on to jake for dear life, until jake reveals that he knew that the gunslinger would try and kill him. following that, jake lets go and falls to his death. having read the book you will understand that king can create a new world like no one else. he can create a setting with a line or two. he can do this by using oddly specific adjectives i haven't seen any other author use. that’s not the only thing though, the characters are just great. you really get to fall in love with jake and the gunslingers relationship through the entire story. finally, this is the first book in a series! king expertly set up the sequel. all in all, this is a great book. i recommend it to anyone who knows how to read.
10/10 (2020-12-12)







nhu tran from vietnam
i'm not really a fan of dark fantasy but this book is so captivating! at first, i went for the book simply to know the style of stephen king (this is my first read of king's by the way), but then i binged the book in one day. the pace of the storytelling is not hectic nor rushing yet so engrossing. the storyline is presented at many different time points but not puzzling at all. king's way of writing casts on my mind a lot of possible scenarios, doubts, guessings,... even in the end, the true self of some characters, and even the protagonist still appears somewhat mysterious to me. given that 'time' is a very classic element of fantasy genre, king has given it a touch of his own 'magic'. it becomes unique, very 'stephenking', indescribable just like the eerie feeling when one confronts 'the man in black'. in brief, this is a brilliant piece of work! i personally think king was quite 'gentle' in writing this book, regarding the badge 'dark fantasy': although sometimes, the story was even darker than darkness, king still spared us a beam of light (far ahead).
9/10 (2020-04-13)







august profumo from usa
the gunslinger by stephen king book review this book is the first of five, dark tower series. the gunslinger’s name, roland wasn’t even mentioned until after about half way, when he meets a boy from the twentieth century where he had died a mysterious death. roland hypnotized him by twirling his bullets with his lighting quick fingertips in kaleidoscopic fashion in front of his eyes: his mother use to pack his school lunch with a thermos. but, he started out alone, walking by a farmer with a dense field of majestic corn. the gunslinger had his water bag, which looked like a sausage, tied around his right shoulder and hung down to his left hip. then he asked for food. so, he was given fresh picked corn and beans. but, the farmer served it piping hot from his stove’s pot to his pewter plate, with melting butter, a napkin and a silver spoon. the farmer’s crow was called zoltan—and he spoke like parrot a few lines from the gospel. the gunslinger was packing iron, and he’s given directions to the next town: kark. then he entered a small bar with stools in kark, with only a few patrons playing at the poker tables. then he asked for a shot of whisky and three burgers. then he paid for it with a gold coin. but, they didn’t have any change, so the owner kept it. then the burgers started smelling heavenly after sizzling on a hot grill, but the cook had to remove them from their paper wrappers. then he asked for a whore for the night. so, he paid alice’s fee and slept with her for about a week, during the evenings. but, while it was daytime, he looked for the dark man in black, whom he had been stalking for nearly twelve years because he was his archenemy (or nemesis). so, the consensus claimed that he was seen passing through based on his descriptions: wearing a black cowl. king uses him; as if he were a carrot (tied to a buggy whip) in order to lure his audience (forward), as if they were horses. he’s strategically located at three different places including the end: tower one. then the gunslinger (roland) visited a nearby church at the town’s edge. the priest was a woman who alice had warned him about as being super zealous, ardent and a holy roller. so, he listened to her sermon through an open doorway. then he finally realized that her description of the interloper aptly described himself—and alice’s impressions were right on the button. so, he returned to town, expecting trouble because of its proximity because she had influenced it, drastically. since, he was the butt of her sermon: the anti-christ. so, when he reentered the town in question, he pulled out his gun from his left hip holster, with his bullet belt tied snugly around his waist. then he held it ready (and perfectly still) in front of him, scrutinizing the town, menacingly, without revealing any emotion or thoughts, or wisdom. then he walked steadily—inch by inch—around the corner of a red adobe building. then he observed a group of a five men charging out of the saloon bar (brusquely) with the doors (flapping back and forth), armed with pitch forks. then he fired five times, loudly, and hit them all squarely in their respective temples, with freshets of blood, landing on the doorway. then he reloaded using his lighting, quick finger tips. but, someone threw a few sticks and stones en route—and a boy used a small knife to cut his left calf, deeply. so, ultimately, he killed the entire population of fifty, including woman and children. (however, it would’ve been more realistic, if the townsmen had been better armed with guns or cross-bows, or perhaps sharpened spears). flash back to his first hanging when he was an eleven year old boy, he was being instructed with his best friend, cohort, how to hunt with hawks with heavy leather gloves. but, he didn’t do it according to the book. thus, a punishment was levied: he wasn’t allowed to eat dinner. but, the cook went ahead and fed them, with full servings of meat. so, roland’s father who was a local patriarch ordered that the cook had committed high treason, since it was against orders. so, his father had the cook hung at a gallows. so, his father said, that he and his friend, cohort, should visit the hanging, which was the next day. so, he could see what treason was all about first hand. so, he went early in the morning. then he noticed that many people had packed pick nick luncheons next to a stage. then it started to get more crowded. then the cook was lead out to the gallows, alone, without fanfare or religious sayings. then a noose was put snugly around his neck by a hangman. then the trap door was released from its hook and he plummeted downward through it. then his neck snapped (literally and abruptly) when he finally bottomed out. then his huge body started to make a y shape from swinging back and forth with his rope. so, roland was the only person watching it completely, since his friend had departed early. so, he learned what justice was at an early age: it couldn’t be compromised, conquered or avoided. so, it matured him decisively—by a thousand years—and imbued him with wisdom beyond his years. flash back to his first coming of age roland had to fight to the death with his own teacher. so, his teacher asked him to identify his weapon: it was his hawk. so, his teacher didn’t expect it. so, roland’s hawk fought his teacher and defeated him readily, because his weapon was radically different and audacious. so, i think that his teacher somehow survived, but since it was novel, he still passed. roland’s portrayal was utterly perilous, rugged, inexorable, cruel, dark and ominous. but, his weaknesses were mulishness, lack of imagination, and his reflexes were lightning fast, but his mind’s wasn’t nimble or fluid. thus, he spent the preponderance of his adult life wandering, nomadically, looking for hassles and participating in frivolous (or petty) gunfights. so, ultimately this distracted him from coming to grips with his arch enemy: the dark man. the dark man had more imagination and cunning, but they shared the same amount of compassion: none. but, roland said, that he loved the boy from the twentieth century. i believe that that dark man won’t be apprehended until dark tower five.
9/10 (2017-03-19)







javen from usa 
the first 5 books of this series were nothing short of incredible with the gunslinger being perhaps the greatest entry book into a series i had ever read. it is true as with all kings books that this peeks to early and recalls way to much in the end as a super long prologue but even that is amazing. having said that you need to end your reading of these series at wolves of calla, unfortunately the final two books do to this series what the second and third movie of the matrix did. it waters down a incredible story and breaks your heart. good luck, but do not say you were not warned...
10/10 (2016-07-15)







xavier from austria
the gunslinger is an excellent start to a fascinating series. i was left feeling that king had poured every ounce of himself into this series (this is in the main a good thing but book six...). roland's quest to reach the dark tower has everything, including moments of fantasy and horror while also evoking the feel of the old spaghetti westerns. although different from the majority of king's other works it does have one thing in common - it is another example of superb story telling. recommended.
9/10 (2012-12-14)







joos from the netherlands
i first read 'the gunslinger' when i was around twelve, eleven years ago, and i got sucked into this book and within a week i had read 'the drawing of the three' and 'the waste lands' and loved every second reading them. when the 4th book: 'wizard and glass' finally came out i found it's quality inferior to the first three books but still good. when the 5th,6th and 7th books came out i all read them as well of course, but i found those to be even worse. overall i'd give this "magnum opus" a 9/10 for the first 3 books, a 7/10 for number 4 and a 5/10 for the last three.
7/10 (2012-03-06)







peter from warwickshire
this is small book by fantasy standards and it really is one that reels you in amd leaves you with little choice than to make you're way through the 6 books that follow (they get longer, much longer!)
i thought, as an avid fantasy reader, that stephen king is very good at writing in this genre and roland is a fantastic character with which to write a major series around.
this series is a must for stephen king and fantasy fans alike.
9/10 (2012-03-01)









9.1/10 from 8 reviews

all stephen king reviews

joyland (hard case crime series)
under the dome 
the dark tower series 
the talisman: road of trials 
11.22.63 
the stand 
it 
the eyes of the dragon 
needful things 
rose madder 
desperation 
the long walk 
gerald's game 
bag of bones 
duma key 
salem's lot 
firestarter 
the shining 
pet sematary 
the talisman (talisman: book 2)
black house (talisman: book 2)
the gunslinger (the dark tower series: book 1)
the drawing of the three (the dark tower series: book 2)
the waste lands (the dark tower series: book 3)
wizard and glass (the dark tower series: book 4)
the wind through the keyhole (the dark tower series: book 4.5)
wolves of the calla (the dark tower series: book 5)
song of susannah (the dark tower series: book 6)
the dark tower (the dark tower series: book 7)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the way of kings by brandon sanderson
(the stormlight archive: book 1)





the way of kings by brandon sanderson is the first volume in a projected ten book epic fantasy series, set on the world of roshar where constant storms have caused the ecology to evolve into something resembling a rock pool or a coral reef. this 1000 page door stopper is a large undertaking for many readers, and with the second book not even out yet i can understand why people would be hesitant to read this book just yet. but i'm going to recommend that you do read it anyway, that way you can join the rest of us in speculating about what might come next.i am completing this review after my second read through of the way of kings, and given that josh has already reviewed this story (please see below) i will try to keep things short and to the point. the way of kings follows the stories of three primary protagonists: kaladin, dallinar and shallan. each one has their own story to tell (which could probably be told in their own novel), with each story slowly helping to unveil the mysteries and secrets that define the world of roshar. the way of kings is very much a journey of discovery, and the more carefully you read it, the more you will learn.if you have read the mistborn series, you will know how things sanderson briefly mentions in the first chapter of the first book are actually key parts of the mysteries unveiled in the final book. you would also be familiar with kelsier and his favourite saying - "every secret has a secret." the way of kings is no different, with seemingly random sentences scattered through the book meaning absolutely nothing unless you know the context to which they apply. i am still trying to process the amount of information i learned during my re-read of the way of kings. the knowledge you gain during your first read in the latter parts of the book, like knowing how long it takes to summon a shardblade, will actually reveal hidden secrets about different characters during your re-read of the early parts of the book. if you loved this book and you thought you knew exactly what was going on, i implore you to read the book again and see if you change your mind. i know so much more than i did before, and it has made me realize just how little i know.you probably noticed that both josh and i are very vague in our description of what this book is about. the reason is that there is so much going on that you can't really describe it without making this review at least triple the size. in short, there is magic, there are swords, there are battles, there are assassins, there are giant crustaceans, there is the threat of the voidbringers who will destroy the entire world, and there are the connections between the world of roshar, the world of scadriel (mistborn), the world of sel (elantris) and the world of nalthis (warbreaker). the density of material that sanderson communicates in these 1,000 pages is immense, the learning curve is steep, but the pay-off is deeply satisfying.so should you read the way of kings? it is a daunting proposition, and honestly, i would not recommend it if you are new to fantasy or new to brandon sanderson. read one of his shorter works first like the emperor's soul. read the mistborn trilogy first. read warbreaker first (it is available as a free download from sanderson's website). if you are an epic fantasy enthusiast and you have not read this book, finish whatever book you are currently reading and make this your next book. it is a unique experience that you should not miss out on, but only if you have done some prior preparation.ryan lawler, 9.5/10--on the 15th of january, 1990, a book entitled ‘the eye of the world’ was released into stores by an author by the name of robert jordan. i sometimes wonder whether people who started reading that book knew exactly what they were getting themselves in for; whether they knew that twenty years later the series still will not have finished and would, in fact, have to be finished by another author.i also sometimes regret not being a big reader (or in my case, being able to read) when eye of the world came out.  i wonder what it would have been like to begin the journey that followed.thankfully, now i don’t have to wonder what it’s like any longer, for ironically, the man who is finishing robert jordan’s wheel of time series has given me the chance to wait a decade or more for a new series to fill out.brandon sanderson, heir apparent to the robert jordan throne, has just released ‘the way of kings’, his first book in the stormlight archive series.it is, in every sense of the word, an epic beginning to what i can only guess (and hope) will be an epic story told over, apparently, ten books with the second one nowhere near being published. in essence, sanderson has just begun the next wheel of time-like series.i wasn’t even a quarter of the way into this book before i realized i was beginning something impressive. sanderson writes as if for his life, knowing just when to leave a point of view for another, when to bring the character back from the brink and when to test a character’s mettle.from a purely writing standpoint sanderson is showing himself to be one of the best. not only is his grasp of his characters impressive, but the way that he imparts that to us is stunning. every character seems to be intricately carved into what we read, with a mixture of flaws and qualities that make them figuratively jump off the page. the action scenes – whether they be from the lowly servants to the mystically enhanced generals – are nothing short of spellbinding and leave you breathless with anticipation throughout.the story itself begins to challenge steven erikson’s malazan book of the fallen for depth and scope. the prologue isn’t there just to pamper the author’s desires but really sets the scene for what is to come, so many years later. the technology, armour, weapons and magic of this world bear the standard sanderson touch, intricately detailed to the nth degree and utterly believable, a combination that many fail to achieve.maybe the area in which sanderson achieves his highest praise is in the manner with which he depicts the headspace our characters live in. not only in their reaction and understanding of the world around them and the manner in which it reacts and has reacted to the continual storms that batter its landscape, but also in how the characters seem to be baffled by concepts that to us are normal, but in their world are foreign. their bafflement leaves the reader similarly baffled, all too great effect.i would love to go on about the way of kings, ensure that you realize this book is one that simply must be on your shelf, but i need to finish up and let it be. in the end, this book will go down as one of the best of 2010.joshua s hill, 10/1010/10 this book will go down as one of the best of 2010.


buy on amazon

reviews by ryan lawler and joshua s hill
51 positive reader review(s) for the way of kings
131 positive reader review(s) in total for the the stormlight archive series







the way of kings reader reviews

jake  from silverman
when i first began reading the novel, i winced because it lacked the potency and richness of characterization that is so necessary in epic fantasy fiction. however, sanderson makes up for it in sheer breadth. the world he creates in the reader's mind is vast, and it is made to seems so real because sanderson connects all of the dots whenever he can. he takes certain opportunities throughout the book to explain something about the world of roshar to the reader. it is done in ways that i haven't ever seen before. since i only read a few of sanderson's novels before, i was impressed by his masterful and lithe writing style. he jumps from character to character in a single scene, offering different perspectives like an action movie, and hold the reader every second. there are some parts that i am tempted to skip, like extended conversations about philosophy between two scholars that only serve as a transition into a more important plot point. there are timeless and valuable themes and morals in this book, which is perhaps is most daring undertaking. it strives to wrestle with large ideas that are not apparent at first, and more so than any other fantasy fiction i've read. the ironic characters, the color of one's eyes, the safehand, and political tension all combine to serve a complex narrative about contemporary society in a way that even outranks the potter series and lotr.
9/10 (2020-05-03)







steve from canada
i thought this book took a long time setting things up and didn't work towards anything seriously climactic. however, the writing and development is great and enjoyable. does the next book deliver after such a build up. it sure does. omg, i don't think i've ever went through a book so quick. well done! still going, wonderful story.
9/10 (2020-01-07)







jj from united states
a great book that sets the stage for what possibly could be one of the greatest fantasy series of all time, up there with lord of the rings.
9/10 (2019-05-15)







behnam from iran
this is the best series you you can pick, just read it and wait for it's beauty to unvail.
10/10 (2017-08-21)







lauren from united states
i think i fell in with sanderson's writing when he finished up the wheel of time series better than the man who started it! i went on to read mistborn which set me up nicely to read the way of the kings. i would say that if long high fantasy books aren't your thing and if you read so slow that you will forget what the 300 pages said before where; do not read this book. this 1000+ page tome isn't for the faint of heart. you can't just slog through it. you need to remember things about it to understand, he leaves clues. that being said: 10 stars. amazing. has lore, warlords, species racism, soldiers, medieval battle tactics, and of course, fantasy magic. keep in mind, it takes authors years to write this long of a book and sanderson writes multiple at the same time. if you don't want to start this series until he is done, wait until he is finished writing them all. there is a progress bar on his website that is very informative on the stage of all his current books. sanderson is the best of the best. he has multiple books that are top in fantasy, which should be clue enough.
10/10 (2017-08-07)







adam from united states
a positively amazing book, that promises to be one of the best fantasy series ever written. sanderson has once again amazed us with his skill and imagination. i can't wait for the rest of the series. it may be long but i recommend it for any fan of fantasy, just read it.
10/10 (2017-07-17)







nathan from united states
holy c**p on a stick, i bow in supreme awe!
10/10 (2017-07-17)







zack from united states
the best book ever.
10/10 (2017-06-22)







jake from usa
amazingly well thought out,and thoroughly enjoyable.
10/10 (2016-11-21)







isaac from us
astounding!!! the world-building is so rich and beautiful, a real pleasure to read. the best part is the relationships between the characters. there are scenes, especially in the second book, that really make you feel. a must-read for anyone who enjoys absorbing worlds and highly memorable characters!
10/10 (2016-04-08)







evan from ireland 
it's been a long time since i read a book which was so gripping, exciting and invigorating throughout! absolutely loved the book and was even happier to hear there will be 9 more. well done b. sanderson.
10/10 (2016-01-30)







chrissy from australia
wow that was certainly a journey! it's my first brandon sanderson book and i like it. it creates a whole new world to go to although you do have to concentrate to read it. it is not a book to read when you just want some mind numbing escape. looking forward to reading the next one.
10/10 (2015-11-15)







lt from canada
greatest high fantasy book i have ever read. sanderson is so unique in his style, and really makes the adrenaline run during action scenes. he still is the master of that.
10/10 (2015-07-05)







darren from england
this book should be without a doubt #1 in the top 100 list i have never read a book that opened and introduced a world like this one other than wheel of time. the balance in this book is simply breathtaking, the world building, magic mechanics, character building and depth is awe-inspiring. makes me feel ill at times when i read the top 100 you have here and have things like "harry potter" @ 26 and wheel of time @49, i seriously wonder at times just how these lists are made up (and sorry to upset a lot of people but lord of the rings doesn't deserve to be top 20 anymore). brandon sanderson has his flaws but with every book he is tightening up his style and narrative and to be honest he has thrown down the gauntlet with this book and i cannot see many people being able to top this in a good while.
10/10 (2013-08-28)







dan from canada
great book, looking forward to book 2.
10/10 (2013-05-12)







jacob el rodriguez from zimbabwe
the way of kings is officially my favourite book. no question.
10/10 (2013-04-23)







philip from cambridge, uk
i can't recommend this book highly enough. it has all the aspects of sanderson's writing which have made him my favourite fantasy authour - a fascinating and logical magic system, characters who develop and change (rather than just being a standard rpg character profile), well-paced & gripping plot with stunning twists, and a wonderfully original world (which only forms part of the 'cosmere' inhabited by all his adult fiction). if this series fulfills the promise of its first book, it may well replace mistborn (which itself supplanted wot) in the no. 1 spot on my book list.
10/10 (2013-02-07)







gunnar from usa
for all those readers out there who don't know this, all of sanderson's books are connected in the same "cosmere". try to find the similar characters in the novels. this epic is only the beginning of an epic beyond all others...
10/10 (2013-01-04)







anggy from indonesia
just some i.n.c.r.e.d.i.b.l.e brilliant fantasy

10/10 (2012-10-14)







jake from united states
great characters, interesting mystery and mythology, fascinating cultures and magic system (which we only partially see). it's long, but well paced, and instantly re-readable. it could even rival george r.r. martin's "a song of ice and fire" for my favorite series if it lives up to its full potential.
10/10 (2012-10-07)







mark from ireland
quite simply the best book i have ever read. you will be hooked from the opening couple of pages. stunning... 3 of the best characters i have ever read and after every chapter i kept changing my mind as to who i loved most. finished it 3 months ago and am still thinking about it. you need to do yourself a favour and read this. please hurry with book two mr sanderson. this was in top 10 list. must be a mistake on the site as i can't find it now for some reason...
10/10 (2012-10-02)







darrell from usa
i like the book, maybe the series will be great, but come on, number 2, i just don't see it. frankly, way too premature to make this book number 2.
7/10 (2012-08-23)







joe from manchester
best book i have read in the fantasy genre. suitable for teens (i read the book at 16 years of age) and paced perfectly.
10/10 (2012-08-23)







kc from colorado
amazing book, can't wait to read it again and continue this series... i know someone has posted this already but i agree so i am saying it too... the worst part of this book is that the rest of the series is not completed! 
10/10 (2012-06-26)







tyler from us
the only thing bad about this book is the entire series isn't out yet. book is a very fun read with a nice world to go with it.
10/10 (2012-06-25)







gabe  from oregon
this book was magnificent! occasionally it slows but not enough that you put it down. the slower parts encourage you to read to the next chapter where something great is bound to happen. the end is unexpected, provides some answers and leaves the reader wanting more. sanderson does a great job in growing his characters throughout the books! it's a must read. i'd give it 9.5/10.
9/10 (2012-06-04)







erik from norway
this book is one of the best modern high fantasy books i have read, only to be toppled by the malazan series. the characters are so real you can almost hear them talk when you read the dialoges. the magic system is a fresh addition to a otherwise quite stale system in fantasy and i find the tadbits of cultural knowledge that we get here and there very good. all in all this is a book anyone who has any sort of interest in fantasy or good fiction must read!
10/10 (2012-04-30)







lewis from somewhere safe
i read the first chapter of this book and was hooked for life, it's authors like brandon sanderson that inspire me to keep on writing fantasy styled stories because of the immense detail and effort devoted to writing this kind of epic fantasy. i must say this book is legendary and kept me hooked from the very start to the very end for the next three days. and when i finished i couldn't help it but hunger for more!
10/10 (2012-03-09)







roble ahmed from london
great book, one of the best epic fanatsy books. a great start to a series, sanderson beautifully sticks to the epic root with twists and turns that have you reading more. it was really a gripper and he wrote the story so compelling that you feel you're actually the character, only great writers can make you imagine such characters. lets' hope the second in the series is written just as good, don't think he can do any better or anyone in fact. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







marius from norway
amazing book! ive read some works from brandon sanderson from earlier (mistborn and warbreaker) and i couldn't stop reading them when i first started. this book is no exception, can't wait for the next one!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







priyanka from australia
it is quite simply brilliant. i am certainly no stranger to sff having read the wheel of time, the kingkiller chronicles and countless others, but way of kings is right up there with the best of the best. i absolutely cannot wait until the next book is released!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







chance from america
once again brandon sanderson stuns with this amazing book. just take a look around some of the the reviews to see what a fantastic book this is. the only bad review is some idiot who wouldn't even give the book a shot. one word of warning though, the book is absolutely brimming with masterful foreshadowing and even the small pictures at the beginning of chapters are full of hidden meaning. once i finished the chapter "recorded in blood" i felt like a pawn in some huge game played with remarkable cunning. the epilogue blended the normally humorous dialogue of wit seamlessly with, not nearly so much of a cliffhanger as a taste of whats to come. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







zach from georgia
perfect book.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







terrence
loved it. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







dan from england
amazing book - just finished reading it my second time and i must say it is one of the best books i have read. it has a slow start but it had me hanging onto the edge of my seat by time i finished. can't wait for the next book in the series, i want to read it now, but we all know it'll be years.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







ronny from hamburg
amazing work as always. i just got into reading epic fantasy last year and haven't stopped ever since. i got to know brandon through the wheel of time and right after i made a little research on him. i immediately moved on to mistborn and then after elantris. now it the stormlight archive. i really love it. the amazing part is that last month i was burning pewter the whole time, last week i was drawing aons and now i just cant stop summoning my shardblade.... :d brandon pls pls pls hurry!!!!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







daniel elizaga from germany
hated myself reading it till the wee hours, reading it while eating my dinner just after work. i'd probably hate myself even more had i not done so, just so to avoid the sleepless struggle in anticipating the next storyline. i've never read so steadfast and driven as before like being chased by the stormfather himself. now, the wait till every next sequel, i would say is the real taste of true desolation.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







lee from abercynon, wales
i loved this book, can't wait to read the next in the series. the characters were believable and very well written. i could not put the book down, please brandon sanderson, hurry up with book #2! 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







peter from australia, brisbane
one of the best starts of a epic, just hope the release of each book is not year apart.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







shell from winchester
don't usually buy hard backs - got into brandon after reading his contribution to robert jordan's wheel of time series - phenomenal - rare originality. can't wait for the next book.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







hamit from australia
i have been reading scifi fantasy books for 20+ years, and i can honestly say that this book is amongst one of the very best that i have ever read. i will place it amongst my other favourite books, such as dune, dark elf series, lotr, and more recently others like the name of the wind, the painted man (or the warded man in us), and others.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







nic from vegas
amazing book. just finished... and i think i'm going to read it one more time before i hit something else. i love how brandon sanderson can always create a system of magic that is incredibly unique and well thought out.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







monty from london
i've read lots of fantasy and sci-fi books, including the wheel of time, and none compare to this book. it's fab, i just hope the author doesn't take too long for the next book and doesn't mess it up but this might just be my favourite book ever ;) 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







meir from ny
the best debut book i have ever read, might be my favorite book of all time.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







edgar from london
one word- amazing! this book at first seemed a bit boring but once i got into reading it i didn't sleep for 2 days - it is a masterpiece. where is the next book :( 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







jensen  from vermont
i don't believe in a perfectly written story, but sanderson has managed to get as close as i have seen in any book.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







richard from london
first, i hate the person who voted this book down because he doesn't want to start reading it next. this book is the best book i have ever read ever... this book is as good as all the harry potter books, i can't wait for the next book to be released
10/10 (2012-03-01)







steven from california
i'm a high school student, one of the few that reads high fantasy books, after finishing the newest wheel of time i sought out another series to start and i found the stormlight archive. all i can say is: "why only a thousand pages", and "how can sanderson write something this good while working on wheel of time..." this book is amazing, the world is well thought out, full of life, with it's very own ecosystem that bares only the slightest resemblance to our own. it is full of lore, and past history, a world already full of strife and conflict, hope and despair, when the read comes in, there is no one part that makes this book instantly amazing, it's the combination, a well thought out plot, as well as character growth, the world itself, and how interact a culture each civilization has, as well as the limits as well as the resourceful use of magic, and how ell expressed the characters inter-thoughts were, to see a writer putting so much effort into the fine details, each page is so exciting, the end of one character point of few links to another, the transition isn't fluid, but it still feels, right. i only regret having found this book now, i have this dreaded feeling the next book in the serious will not be arriving soon, and a book as great as this makes the wait all the more painful. but, for any fantasy reader, who seeks a book that will, kill your schedule, and leave you wishing for more, read this book, hell, any fantasy read should read this book, it's that good.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







ursula from alberta
how a thousand page plus book could seem short to me, i have no idea. but i finished it and had myself a moment of horrible dispair at the realization it would probably be a couple of years, minimum before i would see a sequel, seeing as he's off finishing amol. i then cursed him repeatedly for dragging me into another fantasy epic, when i thought i'd be done with them after the wheel of time was through.
he is extremely skillful at leaving just enough information back, leaving you just at the edge of figuring it all out, but not quite there. we ride around the story looking out from other's eyes, and we share their emotions, and their gonfusion at what is going on. my only complaint was that there was not enough from the viewpoint of the major female character. everytime we left her i wanted to go back.
given sanderson's high rate of output, i have high hopes that we won't have to wait too long between books.

10/10 (2012-03-01)







alysha from north texas
i have been invested in wot the last decade, and i'm now a huge fan of brandon sanderson. i know he started off a little shakey, elantris was not great. but i really liked mistborn. i can say that "the way of kings" has now become one of my favorite fantasy novels at this point. since i have finished with this book i keep wanting to go back and pick it up, but i'm trying to avoid stalking it. bravo mr. sanderson!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







jake from idaho
very well done, the whole concept was very well thought out. i wasn't sure how having so many character stories going on at once was going to work, but they all are great to read about, and bring essence to the overall story. the magic is awesome, and is structured. i hate when authors allow the magic to do anything and everything and has no limits. sanderson is so good with charactrr development and keeping to a interesting story line, it's never dry. i wish i would've stumbled on this book ten years from now, now i have to find something else to read, just to fill the time until the following books release. i recommend this book to everyone.
10/10 (2012-03-01)









9.8/10 from 52 reviews

all brandon sanderson reviews

mitosis (a reckoners novel)
steelheart (a reckoners novel #1)
firefight (a reckoners novel #2)
calamity (a reckoners novel #3)
legion (legion series #1)
legion: skin deep (legion series #2)
legion: lies of the beholder (legion series #3)
mistborn (mistborn)
the final empire (mistborn: book 1)
the well of ascension (mistborn: book 2)
the hero of ages (mistborn: book 3)
the alloy of law (mistborn: book 4)
shadows of self (mistborn: book 5)
the bands of mourning (mistborn: book 6)
elantris 
warbreaker 
infinity blade: awakening 
the emperor's soul 
the rithmatist 
arcanum unbounded 
snapshot 
skyward (skyward #1)
starsight (skyward #2)
the stormlight archive (the stormlight archive)
the way of kings (the stormlight archive: book 1)
words of radiance (the stormlight archive: book 2)
oathbringer (the stormlight archive: book 3)
rhythm of war (the stormlight archive: book 4)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the lion the witch and the wardrobe by cs lewis
(the chronicles of narnia: book 2)





heralded as one of the most enchanting and well written stories of our time the lion, the witch & the wardrobe was the first published story about the magical land of narnia.set in london in the blitz in 1950 four children are sent out of the city and into the country while the war effort is fought by their parents. staying with an old and mysterious professor the youngest lucy finds herself falling through a wardrobe and stepping out into the magical world of narnia. a land blanketed with snow and ice, inhabited by mystical and magical creatures narnia has fallen under the spell of the white witch, the self proclaimed queen of the land.lucy meets a faun by the name of mr tumnus and the pair become instant friends over tea. unable to betray lucy to the white witch the fawn returns lucy to the wardrobe and makes her promise not to tell anyone about what she has seen. upon her return she tells her sister and two brothers who refuse to believe her seemingly tall story.several days later lucy returns to narnia and is secretly followed by her spiteful brother edmund. losing lucy in the snow, edmund is found by the white witch who treats him kindly and makes him promise to return with his brother and two sisters with the promise of making him king and all the turkish delight he can eat.several days later all four children find themselves forced into the wardrobe and into narnia. they are met by mr and mrs beaver who take them to meet aslan, the great lion, who will assist the children in defeating the white witch and restoring peace to the land of narnia.for years the story of wardrobe has been criticized and studied for its supposed religious allegory, stating that the tale of aslan is the story of jesus. lewis always defended this stating that it was never written with any religious alignment or values set in his mind. if people choose to draw that conclusion from it they can.lewis has an outstanding ability to be able to write just enough to give the reader a description of the setting, scene and characters and leave the rest to your imagination. this is a technique that is hard to master and he always manages to pull it off seamlessly. this is one of the best things about his writing technique and makes wardrobe a lot of fun to read and interpret.arguably one of the finest stories in english literature from the 20th century c.s lewis cemented himself as a master story teller and perfected a novel that would survive the test of time and still entertain and educate children and adults everywhere to this day.alaisdair dewar, 10/10--the lion, the witch and the wardrobe is the second book in c.s. lewis's narnia chronicles and was first published in the u.k. in 1950.lucy steps into the professor's wardrobe - but steps out again into a snowy forest. she's stumbled upon the magical world of narnia, a land of unicorns, centaurs, fauns ... and the wicked white witch, who terrorises all. lucy soon realises that narnia, and in particular aslan, the great lion, need her help if the country's creatures are ever going to be free again.the lion, the witch and the wardrobe is the most memorable book amongst the entire narnia chronicles. when someone is asked about cs lewis this is the book that immediately springs to mind. lewis’s christian beliefs are in the book but i do not feel that this is overplayed. there is plenty of humour and courage and these inhabitants of narnia will stay with the reader for a long, long time.the is terrific fantasy for the young adult, young readers of both genders will be able to see a part of themselves in one of the four children. an essential read for the young fantasy reader.floresiensis, 9.5/10"we've fallen on our feet and no mistake. this is going to be perfectly splendid. that old chap will let us do anything we like," said peter to susan, edmund and lucy. the old professor certainly did seem to live in a world of his own, so the children set about finding their own entertainment in the huge old house set miles from anywhere in the heart of the country. first there was the thrilling business of exploring the house - long corridors, endless spare bedrooms, series of rooms lined with books, and one very bleak enormous room that had nothing in it but a very large wardrobe. this, thought lucy, was worth examining. as she was pushing her way through the rows of coats hanging up inside, she felt something soft and powdery and extremely cold. then she noticed something cold and soft falling on her, and she found she was standing in the middle of a wood at night-time with snow under her feet and snowflakes falling through the air. lucy had arrived in the strange, magical land of narnia.10/10 an essential read for the young fantasy reader.


buy on amazon

reviews by alaisdair dewar and floresiensis
13 positive reader review(s) for the lion the witch and the wardrobe
68 positive reader review(s) in total for the the chronicles of narnia series







the lion the witch and the wardrobe reader reviews

amelia reed from usa
the chronicles of narnia is one of my favorite book series. both disney and bbc did a great job making the books into movies, this is a great book for people who like harry potter, hunger games, game of thrones, and many more, the books are also good for younger kids my rating is 100,000,000,000/10.
10/10 (2021-04-05)







alex from uk
i don't really like it but i would recommend it for kids.
7/10 (2021-03-25)







maria from pakistan
i surely like this book. the lion,the witch and the wardrobe is the best book from the whole series of chronicles of narnia! the beginning might be a little dull....but you just hang in there for the end! this is a recommended book!😁😁
9/10 (2020-07-19)







holly from united kingdom 
you have to read this book it the best book you have ever read =)
10/10 (2019-10-23)







dolcie walton from usa
i like the part where the lion comes to help the country of narnia and free the animals from the horrible witch i love the end. i decided to use this book for my project report.
10/10 (2018-11-21)







daniel from israel
an instant classic. original, captivating and so fun to read. even the christian subtexts (aslan rises from his grave, etc.) doesn’t interfere with the greatness of the story and the wonderful timeless adventure.
10/10 (2018-04-23)







gabriella from indonesia
i love this book so much!!! i'm using this book for my book project at school!!
10/10 (2018-03-27)







wendy from america
great book.
10/10 (2017-08-28)







kelly richards from australia
lovely use of words and has a interesting way of putting things together.
10/10 (2017-07-26)







lana from notgoingtotellyou
brilliant
10/10 (2016-03-04)







dogukan from london
this book is very exciting. with its up's and down's due to a little traitor, edmund. the magical land of narnia never get's old/boring and never will. the series will carry on, while the 4 children seek out new adventure's and also meet new characters. this book made me feel like i was actually in the beautiful world of narnia and i hope c.s. lewis will carry on writing these amazing books. :d
8/10 (2012-03-01)







howard from north america
this is the best book in the world! it never gets boring, even when you read it 1,000,000 times!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







sarah from stroud
an absolute must-read in my opinion. the christian analogy is strong but not over-riding. a victory for good over evil set in a magical land. edmund is a little sneak but even he comes good in the end.
9/10 (2012-03-01)









9.5/10 from 14 reviews

all cs lewis reviews

the chronicles of narnia 
the magician's nephew (the chronicles of narnia: book 1)
the lion the witch and the wardrobe (the chronicles of narnia: book 2)
the horse and his boy (the chronicles of narnia: book 3)
prince caspian (the chronicles of narnia: book 4)
the voyage of the dawn treader (the chronicles of narnia: book 5)
the silver chair (the chronicles of narnia: book 6)
the last battle (the chronicles of narnia: book 7)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the blade itself by joe abercrombie
(the first law: book 1)





i was up until half five yesterday morning reading intensely to finish off this story. i didn’t write the review then as it would have been a tired, mumbled mess with little to no eloquence and it wouldn’t have included any cool sounding words. let’s see how i get on now after a good night's sleep…prior to reading this, i had completed abercrombie’s shattered sea trilogy and enjoyed it a lot. where that was classic story focused fantasy with twists aplenty, this is best described as a macabre, dark and twisted character study of morally questionable individuals. this narrative takes place in a world that seems to be brimming with a blood-splattered past, interesting races and a heightened amount of warmongering aggression between the countries and factions. there is a lot going on in abercrombie’s world yet, it is a shame that the two versions of this book that i have didn’t include any maps. i did get a little confused trying to compose a mental map of the world and distinguish where the action was taking place.the greatest accomplishment achieved by abercrombie here is the characters he has created. the four main individuals are:jezal: a vain, selfish nobleman and talented fencer.logan: an infamous warrior.glokta: a tortured and crippled torturer.bayaz: a mage whose motives are mystical.i will not go into any real details about them, how they intertwine, their opinions shared in monologues regarding the others (if they meet that is) but it is a pleasure to read about these characters that are, on paper at least, completely unlikeable. there are times that these characters surprised me with their thoughts. glokta’s internal opinions are darkly humorous yet tortuous when relating to his past, and the womaniser and dashing swordsman jezal actually having some weird emotions for only one lady are two fine examples. the players’ interactions had a tarantino-like quality.this book was a slow burner for me. it has many great qualities but whilst reading i occasionally had an internal dilemma about whether i should put it down and pick up something with more action. two or three amazing set pieces excluded (such as a fencing contest and logan’s old gang’s antics), it doesn’t really include many all out adrenaline fueling segments. towards the end, however; reading this was quite intense hence why i was up until stupid o’clock to finish the story. i reflect that this book's main agenda was probably for the reader to get to know the characters because this is done extremely well. at the finale, the seams are brimming with reported conflicts and a bizarre proposed mission that the characters find out are their fates and destinies moving forward. to conclude, i have to admit that before they are hanged is set up phenomenally well and i am looking forward to shortly jump back into abercrombie’s world.james tivendale, 8.3/10the blade itself is the first book written by joe abercrombie, published in may of 2006 and the first in the first law trilogy. and if you’re looking for something to stun you out of a reading slump, then this is the book to go for.when i go about looking for new books to read, whether i’m just window shopping or whether i need a new book, i tend to resort to amazon. i look up something i know i liked, then look at the similar items and what other people bought bits of the page. that is how i came across joe abercrombie’s the blade itself. the selling point was down in the reviews part of the page;the blade itself ... is reminiscent of two other recent debuts by young authors: the name of the wind by patrick rothfuss and the lies of locke lamora by scott lynch.now any regular fbr readers will know that i loved both those books, and so it was an easy decision to purchase the blade itself.the reviewer goes on to say that the blade itself “...is distinctly the least well-written and -imagined of the three,” and once again i think the reviewer has got it right on the nose. now, let’s be fair here, the name of the wind is the epitome of flawless writing, and scott lynch isn’t too far behind either. so to be the least well written of these three is like being the bronze medallist in the 100 meter sprint at the olympics.still pretty damn good.the book splits between five or six viewpoints, and for the majority each gets its own chapter to shine in before jumping off to another. there’s a barbarian, an interrogator, a fop, a manic, a hunter and a soldier. abercrombie, for the most part, weaves between these viewpoints well, and the only time that the viewpoints start clumping together within a chapter is when the characters similarly clump together in the story.easily the most impressive aspect of this book is the changeup in writing style that each character is awarded. logen ninefingers, the barbarian and dogman both have very gritty, earthy and uncultured styles, with contractions and bad verbage all over the place. jezal luthar, the fop, is pretentious while sand dan glokta, the interrogator, is littered with the thoughts of the character, a technique that abercrombie uses almost exclusively for this character.being able to pull this off as well as he does show abercrombie’s abilities. and maybe the focus on this aspect of his writing is what pulled the thread out of the storytelling. it is a little unfocused, with several small parts of the book seemingly unhelpful in the grand scheme of the book. i enjoyed them. they play to my desire to get lost in the lives of others. but others will and have criticised the unfocused nature of these diversions.this book is very much going to live in its trilogy, as there is much that is left unsaid and only hinted at that will need to be picked up books two and three. but now that all three books are out, as well as one standalone book that is set in the universe, and another on the way in march 2011, you’ll have lots ahead if you liked what you found.joshua s hill, 8.5/10the blade itself is the first in a trilogy of books from up and comer joe abercrombie. being new to the fantasy genre i was unsure what to expect, however, i need not have worried as from the first chapter i was intrigued and by the second i was hooked. abercrombie is a true story teller and allows you to get to know the characters and actually care what happens to them. i think the blade itself will have a broad appeal as the fantastical is woven subtly at first, allowing you to be drawn into the beautifully twisting plots that run parallel with the three main characters before switching up a gear as the characters start to come together.the story begins with logan nine fingers a bloody and ruthless mercenary who has since deserted his post as champion of bethod, a bloodthirsty warmonger who has now proclaimed himself king of the north. logan is now content with keeping himself alive, having to fight off not only bethod's henchmen but the horde of shanka, a race of cruel and relentless creatures, that are sweeping through the north lands. from there we move to the south and adua, seat of the union and home to the rich and favoured, those of noble bloodlines who are born to high ranking careers and ladies of leisure who fan themselves in the ornate gardens of the city. adua is also home to the union's army, which jezal dan luthar is it's current brightest star. vain and shallow, luthar's focus on gambling and drinking is overshadowed only by the impending fencing tournament and the glory it will bring him if he wins, until of course his friend's sister arrives. adua is also home to inquisitor glokta who himself was once the army's brightest star, however, 2 years of unrelenting torture at the hands of the enemy put paid to this and upon his most uncelebrated return to his home he himself, now a crippled and scarred finds himself in the position of torturer for the union's own inquisition. a bitter man and with good reason."all things come to an end but some only lie still, forgotten ....there was a cold feeling in logan's stomach, a feeling he hadn't felt for a long time. 'no' he whispered. 'i'm free of you'. but it was too late. too late..."the blade itself: the tools we havenow war is looming again and it is this that brings bayaz, the first of the magi to adua to claim his place on the closed council and to start a chain of events that, begrudgingly, throws these characters together.abercrombie pulls no punches in his description of bloody battles, yet he is never over gratuitous. the humour in the book is at times laugh out loud and there is certainly enough of the unexplained to keep you guessing and wanting more. there is nothing superfluous in this book, no plot that ends in a damp squib, everything is there for a reason. i found myself putting this book down towards the end, not because i became bored but simply because it was so good i didn't want to finish it! luckily i now have the second book in the trilogy to look forward to reading. i would recommend this book to diehard fantasy readers and those reading fantasy for the first time alike as it is simply a damn fine read.amanda white, 8.7/10critical acclaim for joe abercrombie and the blade itselfan admirably hard, fast and unpretentious read - sfxan incredibly accomplished first book - emerald citygreat characters, sparky dialogue, and action packed plot. from the opening scene that is literally a cliffhanger you know you are in for a cheeky, vivid, exhilarating ride - starburst9/10 simply a damn fine read.


buy on amazon

reviews by james tivendale and joshua s hill and amanda white
15 positive reader review(s) for the blade itself
40 positive reader review(s) in total for the the first law series







the blade itself reader reviews

sunny from england
this was a game changer for me in fantasy and sparked the love of the genre again. the main characters were brilliant and different to the usual typecast heroes and villains'. i've since read all of abercrombie's work and am a big fan of his work.
10/10 (2020-11-04)







malcolm freedman from england
l think the blade itself is a wonderful read
10/10 (2019-03-27)







anon from uk
it is now 12.30pm and i have to be up in 5 hours but can't sleep because of this book! loving every minute of it, very funny and the characters are great if you don't need superhero to make you happy, well worth calling in sick for.
10/10 (2018-09-24)







raphaël from france
not bad at all for a first book, but lacking in depth and texture - i understand that this universe is not meant to be especially original, but i found it a bit dull, and deprived of those details that really put you into the fiction. see what i mean? interesting characters though - i'll read the 2nd book to see what happens to them.
6/10 (2017-04-13)







mrwayne from gloucester
basically, what everyone who is trying to pretend to be a proper reviewer is saying is that: this book is good, but has its flaws, like any book
10/10 (2015-11-17)







peter from seattle, wa
i see a lot of people rating this book as a stand-alone novel. seems a little unfair... this is only 1/3 of the story! the biggest complaint is the lack of plot... which totally kicks into full gear in book 2. i read 'the heroes' before i started this series, so i had a good idea of how exceptional this series was going be. i am half way through book 3 and i have to say for certain, that abercrombie is my current favorite.
10/10 (2013-09-05)







frank from united states of america
what surprised me most that it's a fantasy book. why? because i have never seen such funny dialog, such well developed characters and such a superb plot in a fantasy. those elements always seem to be saved for other genres, but with joe abercrombie, he pulls fantasy away from dreadful, thin as cardboard characters and cliche plot, to a masterpiece.
10/10 (2012-09-10)







isabella from london
about two chapters into the book, i knew it was going to be unlike anything i had ever read before. i knew the characters, their thoughts and moods were expressed better and more naturally than anything i have seen. they are truly interesting people, and you want to know more about them. after three chapters, i was completely captivated. you don't get better characters, you don't get a better story. i've never laughed so hard reading a fantasy book. it was brilliant, and is, now, my favourite book at the moment. i've read it twice and will read it again for sure. there is no confusion with the lore, and it is actually interesting for a change. in a large majority of fantasy books, one skims over most of the lore thinking: "hmm, evil wizards, stones, three goddesses. yup. got it." but the juvens/magi/bayaz history came to life completely. wasn't bored for a second, and was more entertained by most parts than all of the books i've read put together. logan is a realistic (if you get the joke) badass. usually i end up disliking the simple, unintelligent brute warrior, but he's awesome. glokta's speeches become hilarious. hell, they're hilarious from the beginning. it's nearly impossible to get readers to like such an "evil" character, but i grinned my way through all his torture scenes. truly, and awesome, memorable, fantastic read.
10/10 (2012-08-08)







jon from engalnd
very well written, unfortunately the characters seemed a little bit contrived, the book does seem realistic in parts and try's hard to be gritty but i think the author is too inexperienced to pull it off sucessfully. the fight scenes are bloody but again come from someone who obviously lacks any real comprehension of fighting and men of war. the technical details of the fights are underwhelming and naive. the characters themselves are cliched and i found it hard to relate to them. artificial sums them up well. it's hard to write about hardship and fighting when you have little experience and this shows itself throughout the book. still i gave this book a 6 out of ten because it's still an incredible achievement. david gemmell fans look elsewhere.
6/10 (2012-03-01)







ione from tn
i loved this book. don't listen to anyone who tells you it isn't as good as the name of the wind -- i liked this book much better, actually. i'm a big fan of character development, and this book provides more than the vast majority of books out there. and they're interesting characters that you want to know even more about. two things i've seen people complain about: 1. there is some repetitive prose, but that's *intentional* -- compare it to repeated themes within a symphony; and 2. the plot isn't in a big hurry to get anywhere in particular -- so if you insist on frenetic pacing, don't bother with this book. but if you like well-realized worlds and great characters, give it a try!
9/10 (2012-03-01)







gareth from wales
i have trudged through so much tripe in the fantasy genre that i was a bit underwhelmed when a friend bought this for my birthday; that's until i started reading it. this series is one of the best i've read. i couldn't recommend it more.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







tom from ohio
the best thing i have read since george r.r. martin. dark, gritty, and bloody just the way i like it.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







jill smith from london
the best new fantasy series of the past 10 years. having been a fantasy series fan since 1980, i've read most of the major fantasy series and i'm always on the lookout for new books to read. this stands head and shoulders above all the rest i've read in recent years. witty dialogue, original storyline and with character development at a level i've never seen in any other series - joe abercrombie has a real gift for this genre. one that doesn't disappoint on any level. buy it, read it and love it.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







red from northampton
this is a great book, before they are hanged is even better! if you haven't read them, go out and get them today!
9/10 (2012-03-01)







reggie from london
joe abercrombie is the best author around at the moment. i've read the blade itself and before they are hanged and am waiting patiently (not easy!!!) for the release of last argument of kings. if this kind of writing is the future for the fantasy genre then the future is very bright indeed! 
10/10 (2012-03-01)









9.3/10 from 16 reviews

all joe abercrombie reviews

best served cold 
the heroes 
red country 
sharp ends 
half a king (shattered sea #1)
half the world (shattered sea #2)
half a war (shattered sea #3)
a little hatred (the age of madness: book 1)
the trouble with peace (the age of madness: book 2)
the wisdom of crowds (the age of madness: book 3)
the first law (the first law)
the blade itself (the first law: book 1)
before they are hanged (the first law: book 2)
last argument of kings (the first law: book 3)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the eye of the world by robert jordan
(wheel of time: book 1)





“the wheel of time turns, and ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend.”the eye of the world: page 1the eye of the world is the first book of the fourteen book wheel of time series by robert jordan. this thrilling series begins in emond’s field, where we meet rand al’thor, mat cauthon, and perrin aybara. while preparing for winternight, two travelers arrive to the village; a guard and a noble lady—or so it seems. the guard and noblewoman are, in fact a warder and aes sedai respectively. following an attack on the village by a band of trollocs, rand, mat, and perrin must embark on a quest to find answers as to why their quiet village was attacked by beasts thought to only exist in legend. along with them in this quest are moiraine sedai, lan the warder, the gleeman thom merrillin, egwane al’vere, as well as the village wisdom nynaeve al’meara, who join the boys to fight the dark one and prevent his plans from coming to fruition.the journey is long and filled with peril and unforeseen obstacles. the group is tracked by trollocks, fades, and darkfriends, managing to stay one-step ahead until they are forced apart at shadar logath. eventually, the friends are reunited at camelyn, where loial the ogier joins the group. together, they journey onward to the eye of the world and hopefully to thwart the dark one’s plans.this is my second time reading the eye of the world, and i must say, i definitely enjoyed it more the second time around. however, both times i felt that the book got off to a very slow start. that being said, i would urge you to continue reading as it picks up the pace around a quarter of the way through. while the plot definitely has the familiar tropes of high fantasy novels, and as a result there are a few similarities that can be seen in other works within the genre, this is largely due to the huge impact the wheel of time series had on the genre. jordan’s skillful writing truly brings the characters and their journey to life. my favorite character was, without a doubt nynaeve, with moiraine sedai closely behind.robert jordan sets the foundation for a saga filled with unforgettable characters and a world steeped in rich history and legend. if you truly love the fantasy genre, passing up a chance to read the eye of the world would be an unbelievable mistake.kat berwick, 8.7/10life in emond's field has been pretty boring for rand al'thor and his friends until a strange young woman arrives in their village. moraine is an aes sedai, a magician with the ability to wield the one power, and she brings warnings of a terrible evil awakening in the world. that very night, the village is attacked by bloodthirsty trollocs - a fearsome tribe of beast-men thought to be no more than myth. as emond's field burns, moraine and her warrior-guardian help rand and his companions to escape. but it is only the beginning of their troubles. for moraine believes rand al'thor is the dragon reborn, and that he is fated to unite the world against the rising darkness and lead the fight against a being so powerful and evil it is known simply as the dark one.the eye of the world marks the beginning of robert jordan’s twelve-book epic fantasy series the wheel of time. this series is regarded as the finest fantasy series ever by many of jordan’s loyal fans and many years of a reader’s life can be lost within its pages.at a time when many authors were producing pastiche tolkien, jordan created entirely new races, an innovative magical system and a captivating world with its own rich history.the eye of the world is a multifaceted and exhilarating adventure from an accomplished writer; a fantasy book that grips slowly and refuses to let go.robert jordan died on september the 16th, 2007. eleven books had been published at the time of his death and jordan’s widow, harriet mcdougal, has chosen brandon sanderson to write the twelfth book and thereby complete the series.floresiensis, 8.6/109/10 a fantasy book that grips slowly and refuses to let go.


buy on amazon

reviews by kat berwick and floresiensis
38 positive reader review(s) for the eye of the world
74 positive reader review(s) in total for the wheel of time series








the eye of the world reader reviews

kayode from nigeria
to understand my review, please note that i stay in nigeria, so i actually had to first buy this thrash on amazon, then have it shipped down to nigeria, and paid charges for private courier services since the public one is thrash. that's the background to how i came in possession of this "book". how did this "thing" get published? who read it and thought readers would love it? should it not be a crime to buy fake glowing reviews that mislead people to buying crap they cant return? i s that not fraud? it was a torture reading through this thing. i derived no sort of enjoyment from it. may god have mercy on the rest of the book sin this series
10/10 (2020-04-12)







alex from bulgaria
i've had fun reading this book and will definitely start reading the second one less than 24 hours after finishing this one. some reviewers say that this book borrowed too much from lord of the rings and isn't very original, well, even so, until it was pointed out i didn't notice it at all, and this means it's probably a figment of people's imagination, nitpicks for the sake of bashing the book just because. i enjoyed it and i have found only one thing that bothers me a little: how come the three main characters, rand, mat and perrin happen to be important and live in the same place and even be frends at that? then egwene and nynaeve are also sort of important and they also live in two rivers and are well acquainted with the three. how big of a coincidence is this? i would have much preferred if the other two protagonists were from other places and don't know rand and one isn't even contacted by moraine hasn't contacted them yet, also with one of them even possibly being contacted by darkfiends first. it would've made things more off the beaten path. but i liked it as it is too, maybe in the future books there will be such events.
9/10 (2018-08-26)







himanchal sharma from india
i was swiping through suggestions of fantasy on goodreads and didn't find the eye of the world's cover least bit interesting (i had seen some pretty awesome covers) and hence ignored it. two days later i came across it again and finally decided to give it a go. and here's the thing: - fate!... fate united me with this series and it's the very best there is. everything in right proportions from drama, warfare, love, scandal to guerrilla warfare.
10/10 (2018-06-26)







lily from united states
my dad read this book and has all of the books, and we like the same book style so he gave it to me to read. it took three of four times starting the book to get into it but after i did i could not get out of it. it truly is an amazing book.
10/10 (2018-04-23)







maurice from canada
i have read many fantasy series and this is my second favorite. and no lotr is not number one. sad that everyone must compare everything to it. read and judge on its own merit. these books are great.
10/10 (2017-12-18)







lauren from united states
setting the stage: friend begs you to open your fantasy world to robert jordan's epic series. offers to loan you the books. tells you interesting snippets that eventually get you to commit to a fourteen book saga. challenge accepted, it can't be worse than trying to read the highly segmented game of thrones. even knowing that you tapped out of lord of the rings after reading the superior hobbit. wheel of time: book 1 reels you in on a, rather predictable, adventure. basic tale of: pharaoh forgot to kill all the babies, boy will undue his legacy. (sound familiar?). you persist to book 2 which stays on par with the eye of the world. about this time the appendix is needed to keep all the players in the story correct. book 3 is largely the same. now, don't get me wrong, there is fantasy: creatures, magic, mysterious abilities, kingdoms, spirits. the fantasy is what keeps you going. onward to book 4. now things get cooking, story turns dune-esque until book 5. now slow down to a marginally exciting pace and chomp through the next books feeling like death warmed over until book 11. robert jordan starts to realize, he might die before finishing this unwieldily epic tale. interviews for a writer to finish, landing brandon sanderson on the scene. book 11 is not the pace grinding books of 6-10, this books is back to the jovial entertainment one can expect of jordan at his prime. books 12-14 by sanderson are by and large the best. he wraps things up quickly, keeping an even better pace. you don't care about rand anymore, the books main protagonist. he is an idiot anyways and how he had three (!) women lording over him, i've no idea. no no, matriam (mat) is the character you have to know what happened to. he is, by far, the most developed character in the whole series. review: this book is an 7 in my opinion since it is so unoriginal. take the bible's tale of moses add tolkien. meshing two of the most read stories does not equal a masterpiece. series is an 8 only because sanderson finish. now give the books back to your friend and only mildly agree that it was "awesome." then commence you search to the better writer: sanderson.
7/10 (2017-05-14)







lawrence from uk
i believe whether or not you have read the lord of the rings has a big say in how much you enjoy this book. jordan and his publishers were quite open about how much of an influence tolkien had on its writing. fantasy fans who have not read lotr will likely love it. those who have read lotr will likely also love it but have one too many 'hold on a second, that's moria, that#s strider, that's mount doom etc...'. i was the latter, as i was with the first shannara book. just a little too close for my liking. but i have to admit that it's good solid epic fantasy. a little twee in my opinion and the romance a little cringe-worthy, but definitely worth a read. fans of the series always say that things really get going in book two, so when i get the chance i will read the great hunt and let you know.
8/10 (2016-09-04)







jess from canada 
doesn't really develop, totally predictable. amateur writer. i think if anyone rates this as excellent they really don't know what they are saying. good literature is like good music, most ppl wouldn't know it if it fell on their heads. the wheel of time spins its wheels, totally unoriginal.
10/10 (2016-01-19)







jonathan from italy
best fantasy series after tolkien and before erikson.
10/10 (2015-12-27)







elaine from sweden
other readers have sung enough praises for this series, and for the most part, i agree. my problem with it is for one how the author overgeneralizes his cultures (f.e. the fashion is always unique to a country as dresses cut this way are only worn in that country and that cut is worn somewhere else). this continues into his characterization of said nations (f.e. the atha'an miere are described as extremely graceful due to their whole lives spend on ships - in reality, being used to a life on a ship can make you more clumsy on land because you try to compensate for waves that aren't there; or the arad domani are all said to be excellent merchants - i wonder how arad doman survives, aren't there other jobs: craftsmen, warriors, farmers or who produces all the goods the merchants sell? they hardly materialize from thin air... and so on throughout the complete series!) the second thing i disliked were all the abandoned subplots and characters who's appeared once and seemed to play an important part, and then were completely forgotten by the author. and does rand really need three beautiful, talented women falling in love with him? and not be jealous of each other? lots of wish fulfillment on the author's part here... and what do we readers dislike most? - right, author's wish fulfillment! on the whole this is a very good series with elaborate worldbuilding and great magic system. many things, though, repeat themselves and more character development would've done the series lots of good. as it is, it gets 8 points from me.
8/10 (2014-07-06)







sayan from india
one of the best fantasy books ever written... far better than any of martin's a song of ice and fire books.
10/10 (2013-09-10)







darren from england
diabolic!!! how this series (even this book alone) is outside of the top 5 in fantasy series is beyond belief (especially when you have the ludicrously shallow money maker that is harry potter some 20+ places above it !!!! ) i think the list needs an update (same sentiment goes for stormlight archives #1 by brandon sanderson which is just about the most perfect opener to a fantasy series written to date!)
10/10 (2013-08-28)







victor from uk
no other world can be so rich and feel so real. no other characters can be so entertaining. enjoy the entire series, definitely starting with this one. the wheel of time is the best thing that happened in my life.
10/10 (2013-05-01)







philip from cambridge, uk
these books have been the definition of good, epic fantasy for me for the best part of 10 years. as i've grown up, i've come to realise some of their flaws - overly meandering sub-plots, slow pacing (esp. in books 7-10) and endless descriptions of clothing - but these take nothing away from how much i love the series as a whole. the slightly samey characters and idiosyncratic descriptions become like old friends after a while. brandon sanderson has finished the series brilliantly, and it is well worth labouring through the slower books to get to his ending. for all its flaws, the wot remains one of the greatest fantasy series' ever written.
8/10 (2013-02-05)







darrell from usa
i echo that how you have this as low as you do is astounding. this series is by far the greatest fantasy series i have ever read and i've read a ton of fantasy over the years. i'm 58. laugh at most of the books series you have over it. what happened, did they pay you more or something?
10/10 (2012-08-23)







arj from uk
how this series is at number 80 i have no idea. i've read about 50% of the books listed here, and i would say that the wheel of time tops them all. incredible series. incredible depth and complexity. in fact, credulity is more of a theoretical concept when considering just how intricate this series is. i've never spent time on forums researching books and discussing plot lines with other readers for any other series. if you're new to fantasy and you're looking for a great story with some great characters, look no further than this. 
10/10 (2012-06-30)







ian from adelaide
strange top 100 ratings overall. the wheel of time series is the best high fantasy series i have read. it's easy to see tolkein being rated number one due to its overall impact on the genre, but the entire wheel of time series is immense and complex. it was also hard to reconcile the low rating of the riftwar series as this shoulfd have been higher up the list.
the first book is slow comparatively and the tale ebbs and flows but when it kicks into gears it is truly spectacular. i thought the characterisation and strong gender balanced mix of heroes was strong unlike a number of other coommentators. some of the books had interrupted flows which did not fully serve the story and i was underwhelmed on initial readings of books 7-9. there series has recovered strongly with books 10-13 fantastic.
i haven't read erikson but the balance of the top 10 do not measure up to the scale of the wheel of time series which hasn't diminished as yet. my 12 year old son is equally impressed with wheel of time, so it is a sereies that resonates across age groups as well.
10/10 (2012-06-30)







stick from upstate ny from oneonta
anyone ever read e.r. eddison "the worm ouroboros"? from 1919, an old myth (from bce) i believe. recognized it straight away. decent book for its time, if you can accept the science of the time, dropped char's, and prose of 1919. of course, same to be said for wells, burroughs, etc. i give 7 for worm. just wanting to say icon and premise of book isn't original, reminds me of homer. then again, have there been any truly original stories lately in almost every genre. still, series is great!!!
9/10 (2012-05-21)







stick from upstate ny from oneonta
was turned on by good friend after turning him to mabinigion (evangeline walton). i thought bk1-7 were great.
next 2 bk => bk 8. bk10-11 => bk9. thankfully bws doesn't spend pages descibing coutuere, coiffure, and room settings. remember rj was an opera critic. agree w/ many opinions above. bws comes to point. would give 10 if not for bks 8-11. thanx ttfn.
9/10 (2012-05-21)







rand from emonds field
by far my favourite out of the ones i've read. gripping, a masterpiece.
10/10 (2012-04-30)







mark from uk
a masterpiece.
10/10 (2012-04-16)







andy from reading
i think that the wheel of time series is brilliant, and whilst the books do appear to drop off they pick up again on book 11. it is certainly true that brandon sanderson has appeared to breathe new life into this series, jordan weaved an in depth multi faceted world which pulls you in. fortunately robert jordan left brandon sanderson a plethra of notes and plans so we will be able to read the culmination of jordan's world. i think to read the whole series of these books you do require a lot of will power at times although compared to the lord of the rings trilogy (which i believe was woefully written, but a fantastic story) this is an easy read.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







emma from herts
there is such a scope of detail and imagination within the books i was easily hooked. although at times perhaps too extensive and repeative with the detail the story develops on a vast scale i found myself skipping through the book to discover what was happened before it did. the characterisation develops quickly in the first 4 books before slowing down and more sub-plots enter thr fray which can be confusion so that by the 6th book you're following about 7 storylines, which in any book is hard to develop on a large scale and is no different with jordan. as more characters are introduced jordan/sanderson does not provide quite enough backround and the storylines do become a bit hurried and short which left me growing a little disapointed with the series from the 5th book onwards, however still a fantastic read. a bit challenging for someone who is just trying fantasy fiction but definitely worth the go.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







eni miga from london
1 to 2 to 3 to 4 to 5 - simply immense. from there things went down hill.
6/10 (2012-03-01)







john from california
i loved this series the first 2-3 books are amazing and compelling. however after this the next 5 or so are pretty redundant. as sorry as i was for jordan to leave this world, i am elated that brandon sanderson has picked up the pieces to finish the series. he has given this epic fantasy new life, the last two books are by far my favourite as he is a much better writer than r. jordan was. he has grabbed all the loose ends that jordan left behind and forged a masterpiece bringing closure to so many parts of the book that have gone unattended. i have read the 2 books he wrote 3 times each already they are great. stick with it skim do whatever you have to do to get to the books he has written they are worth it. 
8/10 (2012-03-01)







zach from mississippi
the first book is so compelling! it is a must read for any fantasy reader. it is said that the series goes down hill later on in the books but that is for you to determine for yourself.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







priyanka from australia
the best series ever. brilliant storytelling, relatable and complex characters, impressive worldbuilding, complex and compelling plotlines and subplotlines (and excellent foreshadowing). virtually flawless - a must read!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







john from new york
epic fantasy at its best. the world mr. jordan creates is full of depth and detail. which is nice because too often in fantasy novels the world seems empty aside from the main characters. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







vincent from new jersey
no one creates a more detailed and vibrant world than robert jordan. the amount of detail in every page can be overwhelming at times but well worth it. the way he writes you would think that in his life mr. jordan has been a sailor, horse trader, farmer, blacksmith, etc. every person you meet every trade they do is presented with the detail of someone who has been that craftsman. for those who enjoy bubble gum fantasy where everything is resolved in 350 pages this is not the series for you. but if you enjoy intelligent well written epic fantasy then there is no better than the wheel of time.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







dan from colorado
this book is a masterpiece and certainly one of the best first books in a fantasy series i've ever read. robert jordan's writing is unbelievably detailed and his characters are so realistic that you'll feel you know them personally by the end of the first book. while it feels a little much like lord of the rings in the beginning, it quickly becomes a much grander, more interesting adventure and a story that is purely jordan's invention. would definitely recommend it. my only warning is that you better have plenty of spare time to devote to the series!
9/10 (2012-03-01)







graham from glasgow
the wheel of time series has been in my life since early 2006 when i accidently came across the eye of the world gathering dust on my partner's bookshelf. since then i have been dipping in and out of the world rj created with each book, terrified at the prospect of reaching the end of the series. it is simply superb and i have so much love for this series. i couldn't have hoped for more. my only word of caution - there are a lot of books!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







shell from winchester
robert jordan's series is second to none - the complete series [including the final books that are being edited and compiled by brandon sanderson] and his prequels contain a whole new universe that resonates with our own - thought provoking and philosophical concepts that go beyond simple fantasy - a true master series.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







patrick from canada
epic story, detailed world, plot holes, shitty characters and crappy side stories, strong characters and exciting storyline. i feel its like a constant build of a lame plot for one character which becomes a real page turner then right when it gets good, a switch to another lame plot line which does the same thing. a vicious cycle, but... i can't put the books down. i love em... except that what i described can get really frustrating. it can take over your life x0
8/10 (2012-03-01)







josh from cali
the best series i have read.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







ryan from canberra, australia
i had very fond memories of this book, it was the first "really really big" fantasy book that i ever read with rand, mat and perrin becoming instant heroes to me. its been 12 years now and i have started reading the books again and while the enjoyment is still there, the hero worship is completely gone. i'm finding it hard to come to grips with just how immature these three boys really were in the first couple of books (and egwene). another factor that brought this book down slightly is that i now find the book too descriptive to become completely immersed, everything just seems to rigid and specific. the story is still a great story and i highly recommend the series
8/10 (2012-03-01)







singleton from orlando
the eye of world is book 1 of the wheel of time series, which in my opinion is the best ongoing series written in the english language. finally a book comes along that truly captures the human nature. people don't change as quickly as other fantasy books suggest. the simple truth is fear is a powerful emotion and it take time to get over such fear. this is the most accurate portrayal of true human reactions to change as i've ever seen in a fantasy novel.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







james from melbourne
i am slightly disappointed with this book as i heard a lot of good things about it. the thing i thought was lousey was the characterization. i thought rand was boring and was 2d while the rest of the major male characters where similar. although i would still like to read the next books, i felt at times that it was slow and boring. i still do think you should check it out but be warned... it is not as good as some say.
7/10 (2012-03-01)







ian from london
i am often asked what fantasy books someone should read if they are looking for new material, and i am astonished at how many people haven't read this series yet. it's the first book i recommend if i know someone likes fantasy, and it's the series that i always turn back to when i'm looking for reading material for the next couple of months.
currently spanning 12 main books and one prequel, with two more due to close the story arc, the series has for the most part leapt from strength to strength, developing an impressive array of both main and bit characters. the first three or four books read like fairly typical high fantasy in places, albeit very well written high fantasy, but after that everything starts to develop further, with everything from tense political situations through breathtaking action scenes to the simple love stories working in the background, this series has something for anyone who loves fantasy.
i honestly cannot recommend this series enough.
10/10 (2012-03-01)









9.2/10 from 39 reviews

all robert jordan reviews

wheel of time 
warrior of the altaii 
the eye of the world (wheel of time: book 1)
towers of midnight (wheel of time: book 13)
the great hunt (wheel of time: book 2)
the dragon reborn (wheel of time: book 3)
the shadow rising (wheel of time: book 4)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




good omens by terry pratchett
and neil gaiman






good omens: the nice and accurate prophecies of agnes nutter, witch is a contemporary and comedic fantasy written by neil gaiman and terry pratchett in 1990. the collaboration between two of the finest fantasy authors of our generation is nothing short of brilliant, and while they both shared everything equally and did it for fun, pratchett has said they wouldn't do it again for a big clock.the antichrist has been born, the four bikers of apocalypse have gathered, its the end of the world as we know it and its all happening in the small english suburb of lower tadfield. this is not the news the angel aziraphale and the demon crowley had been hoping for as they have become quite accustomed to their lives on earth and are starting to have second thoughts about the whole armageddon thing. despite being mortal enemies they decide to work together to help raise the antichrist in the hope that when it comes time for the apocalypse, the antichrist might just decide not to carry through with it. if only those meddling satanic nuns hadn't got to him first...good omens is by far one of the funniest works of fiction i have ever read. pratchett and gaiman have managed to create a story that weaves together large doses of satire, cynicism, slapstick and wacky unconventional humour into a cohesive yet suprisingly accurate observation of human life all over the world. the characters, one of the biggest strengths in this book, bring a lot charm and humour to the book by managing to be both unique yet stereotypically british at the same time.the side plots are are another strength of this story that despite being seemingly random and independent stories are actually laying a solid foundation for the main plot by providing lot of relevant background information and support. this is a fun story that uses these side plots to make light of what can be some very serious and topical themes. while the side plots themselves are a strength, the haphazard way in which they are a told is a slight weakness as they can sometimes be confusing and hard to follow, especially if you haven't picked up the book for a few days. also there are a few side plots and characters in there that do not really add a great deal to the story and feel like they are just there to grab a few cheap laughs. in the bigger scheme of things these are very minor gripes and do little to detract from what is well thought out, well paced and enjoyable story.the description above barely scratches the surface of what is a very broad yet complex array of characters and plots because i needed a limit to prevent my nice and accurate review from becoming an overwhelming and unwieldly beast. there is so much going on, so many little details to keep track of, and yet it still manages to come together quite nicely to form a great story about what it means to be human.9/10 this collaboration between two fine fantasy authors is nothing short of brilliant.


buy on amazon

review by ryan lawler
6 positive reader review(s) for good omens







good omens reader reviews

horst from south africa
"i laughed. i cried. one day i'll even read it." – groucho marx here's the thing: if you are lucky enough to have read this book, a book with dukes of hell and bikers of the apocalypse and a demon who drives a bentley through the english countryside all the while not giving a damn about the stiff british upper lip plus a seriously hilarious cast (some that are experts at lurking and some that are totally confused on whose side they're on) where you even gotta love the baddies – well then, you are one of the lucky ones to have read good omens. truth: my girlfriend has forbidden me to read this in bed because i break out into hysterical giggles so often she can't sleep. so she can't function the next day. we are suing messrs pratchett and gaiman for writing the funniest book ever!
10/10 (2016-10-18)







ryan  from usa
hands down one of the best books i have ever read, and re-read, and re-read.
10/10 (2016-04-14)







makkarii from u.s.
one of my favorite books of all time, i've read it countless times. read my entire review here: http://wordymadness.blogspot.com/2014/01/good-omens.html
10/10 (2014-01-06)







karen from england
can't remember how long ago i first read this but it still has the ability to make me laugh out loud just thinking about some passages... read it, if only for the bit about death, the four bikers, the motorway cafe, the quiz machine, the other three horsemen of the apocalypse, and the joke about elvis (no, really.)

10/10 (2012-11-08)







katerina from germany
concerning the 'extra characters who do not add much to the book' - i disagree. on the first read-through, it's true that one find oneself craving more of the stage-stealing azi and crowley, but the presence of all the human characters in particular is essential in a book that is *about* humanity and how important it is. those scenes are needed to give context to the main characters' decision to side with them at the end. excellent review, however. :)
10/10 (2012-10-10)







dave from nyc
read this book! even if you are not a fantasy fan you will enjoy this book. this book is a combination of the best these two great authors have to offer. gaiman is an incredible plot weaver who is able to temper some of the obviousness of pratchet's puns. the main characters are hilarious and you can't help but love this quirky cast.
10/10 (2012-03-01)









9.9/10 from 7 reviews

all terry pratchett reviews

a blink of the screen 
the ankh-morpork archives: volume one (discworld anthology #1)
the long earth (long earth #1)
the long war (long earth #2)
the long utopia (long earth #4)
nation 
the discworld series 
good omens 
the compleat ankh-morpork city guide 
the world of poo 
dodger 
the carpet people 
the colour of magic (the discworld series: book 1)
lords and ladies (the discworld series: book 14)
feet of clay (the discworld series: book 19)
the light fantastic (the discworld series: book 2)
jingo (the discworld series: book 20)
the fifth elephant (the discworld series: book 24)
night watch (the discworld series: book 28)
mort (the discworld series: book 3)
equal rites (the discworld series: book 3)
the wee free men (the discworld series: book 30)
monstrous regiment (the discworld series: book 31)
a hat full of sky (the discworld series: book 32)
going postal (the discworld series: book 33)
wintersmith (the discworld series: book 35)
making money (the discworld series: book 36)
unseen academicals (the discworld series: book 37)
i shall wear midnight (the discworld series: book 38)
snuff (the discworld series: book 39)
sourcery (the discworld series: book 4)
raising steam (the discworld series: book 40)
the shepherds crown (the discworld series: book 41)
guards! guards! (the discworld series: book 8)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the once and future king by th white






lev grossman, author of the wonderful the magicians, believes that th white's the once and future king is the best fantasy book every written.synopsist.h. white's masterful retelling of the arthurian legend is an abiding classic. the once and future king, contains all four books about the early life of king arthur (the sword in the stone , the witch in the wood , the ill-made knight and the candle in the wind). exquisite comedy offsets the tragedy of arthur's personal doom as white brings to life the major british epic of all time with brilliance, grandeur, warmth and charm.reviewthe once and future king is a serious work, delightful and witty, yet very sombre overall. the volume published as the once and future king is actually four works separately composed over about 20 years. the first, the sword in the stone, concerns the lost childhood of arthur, future king of england, and his education by merlyn. the second, the queen of air and darkness, tells the story of adolescent sons of orkney and their mother, morgause. the third, the ill-made knight, takes up the story of sir lancelot and his uneasy relation- ship with queen guenever and with arthur. the fourth, the candle in the wind, concerns the end of the round table and arthur's death.white uses the inherent flexibility of prose to deliver a lot of information, not only background information that makes it easy for the modern reader to picture 12th- and 13th- century england, but also good analogues to modern society that work not only to clarify what might be confusing, but also to show the continuity of english life from the middle ages to the 20th century. (guardian.co.uk)‘magnificent and tragic, and irresistible mixture of gaiety and pathos’ the sunday times‘this ambitious work will long remain a memorial to an author who is at once civilized, learned, witty and humane’ times literary supplement10/10 delightful and witty, yet very sombre overall. a classic.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
4 positive reader review(s) for the once and future king







the once and future king reader reviews

bette from united states
this is mythology for all time and, especially book one, for any age person interested in stories. it should be on any list of 50 books everyone who likes to read should read.
10/10 (2019-10-22)







rei from indonesia
a legendary tale told in the most epic way, the once and future king is definitely worth the read. it has, personally, set a high standard for all fantasy books to follow.
10/10 (2019-06-09)







david from united kingdom
it is always dangerous to return to a book that had an impact at a young age, the memory of it preserved in amber, something untouchable. there is always the chance that, in later life, the book will let you down, not be that thing you once thought it was. i'm glad to say that th white's the once and future king is, if anything, even better than i recalled. white's retelling of the arthurian legend is a joy from start to finish. the central conceit that allows him to set the tale in the age of chivalry is that it wasn't william that conquered britain, it was arthur's father, uther pendragon. thus we get all the romance and tragedy of malory's tale, but retold for a modern sensibility, with a large dose of the author's worldview for good measure. split into four books (all originally published separately) we start with the sword in the stone, probably the most famous part of the story due to its adaptation into a disney animation back in the 1960s, which tells of arthur's childhood in the care of his foster father sir ector of the forest sauvage. here we meet merlyn, depicted by white as a somewhat eccentric old man, tutor to arthur and his foster brother, kay. it's a rip-roaring read and arthur has some wild adventures as merlyn teaches him valuable lessons by changing him into various animals, forcing the young wart to think about the big ideas. arthur here is an ordinary boy, chosen to live an extraordinary life. thinking about such abstract concepts as justice and the use and abuse of power does not come easily to arthur. but it's beautifully told, with the central tragedy foreshadowed and arthur reluctantly assuming the kingship of britain and beginning his fateful destiny. next is the queen of air and darkness, where the focus shifts to the orkney brothers, gawaine, agravaine, gaheris and gareth. while arthur fights battles to bring his kingdom to order, the orkneys grow up under the scant, fickle affections of their witch-mother morgause (one of the cornwall sisters along with morgan le fay and elaine). it's the shortest book, but the most vital in terms of setting out the main strands of what follows. the round table, merlyn leaving, mordred, lancelot, all have their beginnings in this darker tale. it's one of the neat touches of the book as a whole that as each story continues it becomes more adult, growing with the characters. the ill-made knight turns our attention to lancelot, the best knight in the world. there's so much in this book - guenever, elaine, galahad, the grail quest, death, betrayal, adventure and lots of angst. the central triangle of arthur, guenever and lancelot is shown in all its complexity. in white's hands these are real people with real emotions: petulance, sorrow, love, madness. in the pages of this book arthur's dream of might for right reaches its apex before it slowly starts to curdle, to fall apart. the tragedy lumbers on with all the force of destiny behind it. finally there is the candle in the wind, where arthur, now an old man worn down by death and the failure of his table tries hard to give mordred, his son by his half-sister morgause, all the love he can. but to no avail. the hatred in mordred's heart will split the kingdom and usher in a new dark age. white wrote this final part while europe fell under the shadow of fascism and there are obvious parallels in mordred's black clad followers. there is death here and betrayal, and a moving end to the tale as arthur realises that all his efforts might not have been in vain, that the ideals of the table might live on and their time come again. for my money this is the best retelling of the arthurian legends ever written. white picks and chooses from malory to construct a story that works on many levels. there is philosophy running through this book that makes you question how the world is run and how it can be made better. but it's also funny, moving and fantastically well-written. still one of my favourites. go read.
10/10 (2019-03-21)







simon from conisbrough
the first book about arthur's childhood is absolute magic. i found the following three books to be very disappointing. sword in the stone 10/10....the other books 3/10.
10/10 (2012-03-01)









9.9/10 from 5 reviews

all th white reviews

the once and future king 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




under heaven by guy gavriel kay






before you begin reading this review of guy gavriel kay’s under heaven i would like to make some things clear. i am a fan of guy gavriel kay’s work but not to the point of sycophancy. tigana was a wonderful book, amongst the best i read as a young adult and the two books that made up the sarantine mosaic i found similarly excellent. i enjoyed the lions of al-rassan and the fionavar tapestry but not to the same extent as the two previously mentioned titles. the reason i say this is so that it puts this positive review of under heaven into perspective.under heaven, inspired by the tang dynasty of ancient china, is as beautiful and enriching a novel as you could possibly wish for. kay is an expert storyteller, his writing style strong and fluid, his exposition always necessary and worked seamlessly into the narrative. he has successfully re-imagined ancient china in the same accessible and absorbing way that he previously achieved with medieval france, ottoman spain and renaissance italy.the first thing that draws you into the world that kay has created is the synopsis on the back cover:for two years shen tai has mourned his father, living like a hermit by a mountain lake where terrible battles have long been fought between the kitai and the neighbouring tagurans, including one for which his father - a great general - was honoured. but tai's father never forgot the brutal slaughter involved. the bones of 100,000 soldiers still lie unburied by the lake and their wailing ghosts at night strike terror in the living, leaving the lake and meadow abandoned in its ring of mountains. to honour and redress his father's sorrow, tai has journeyed west to the lake and has laboured, alone, to bury the dead of both empires.it is such a simple gesture made by shen tai but one that readers will immediately identify with, much in the same way that it also resonates with the characters within the book itself. i would have been quite happy had the entire book stayed with shen tai by the lakes of kuala nor, burying the bones and appeasing the ghosts of the dead, such was the haunting beauty of the situation.kay's inspiration for shen tai’s story lies in a poem written by eighth century chinese poet li po regarding the unburied bones littering a desolate battlefield on the tibetan borderlands, and of a solitary modern figure who is placating the ghosts of the fallen soldiers by burying their still-visible remains. in a recent interview kay spoke about how this poem inspired him: “that started me on my book. the idea that, 1,400 years later, these bones are unburied, and a 20th-century businessman felt a pious and psychological impulse to do what he could – 1,400 years later! – to lay to rest those ghosts. that started me thinking about a way i could start my novel. that’s how it does start.”indeed, the author’s deep and profound love for poetry is very evident throughout. the tang dynasty is known as a golden age of chinese poetry and the character of sima sian, the banished immortal, is based upon the legendary li po.a delightful taoist theme runs throughout under heaven with the book’s strongest messages being that mankind’s time is transitory and attempts to create permanence are futile. it also promotes the need for balance, compassion and humility plus the importance of reverence for ancestor spirits. kay’s work did, at times, remind me of ursula le guin’s earthsea books, another example where taoism and fiction work together in perfect harmony. here, as with le guin’s work, the painstaking attention to detail (under heaven showcases seven years of detailed research) results in an unrushed and thoughtful narrative that is a joy to read.“it asks the question, if you can't do everything is it best to do nothing at all? who chooses their fate? who accepts the world only as it comes to them?”excerpt from under heavenhighly recommended, under heaven may well prove to be our favourite book of 2010, it will certainly take some beating.under heaven was published in canada (viking canada) on march 30, 2010. uk (harpervoyager) and us (roc hardcover) publishing dates are the april 29, 2010 and april 27, 2010 respectively.if you have read and enjoyed under heaven then peter ward’s novel for young adult’s dragon horse is also highly recommended.note: if you like to listen to soundtracks whilst reading books, trying to match book and film, then tan dun’s hero is simply perfect, the haunting opening perfectly mirroring shen tai’s life by the haunted shores of kuala nor. tan dun is perhaps best known for his score to crouching tiger, hidden dragon, which shares with hero a visual poetry that transcends the sword-filled action film genre.10/10 as beautiful and enriching a novel as you could possibly wish for.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
1 positive reader review(s) for under heaven







under heaven reader reviews

andy from reading
what a wonderfully written book, the characters, scenes, pace and story are all brilliantly done, this is the first ggk book i have read, and i can certainly say it will not be my last. i suppose my only criticism and it is very very small, is that the book is very neatly wound up, that said, this book is brilliant.
9/10 (2012-03-01)









9.4/10 from 2 reviews

all guy gavriel kay reviews

tigana 
the lions of al-rassan 
the fionavar tapestry 
under heaven 
a brightness long ago 
the summer tree (the fionavar tapestry: book 1)
the wandering fire (the fionavar tapestry: book 2)
the darkest road (the fionavar tapestry: book 3)
sailing to sarantium (the sarantine mosaic #1)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the hundred thousand kingdoms by nk jemisin
(the inheritance trilogy: book 1)





every now and again a book comes out that deserves all the hype that it is getting. a lot of the time a book will come out that doesn’t deserve any of the hype it’s been getting. and probably more often than we like to admit, a book comes out that doesn’t get any hype whatsoever and is absolutely breathtaking.that is the case (as far as i’m aware) for the hundred thousand kingdoms, book one in the inheritance trilogy by n.k. jemisin. this book has blown my mind. as if out of nowhere comes this author who has absolutely nailed their debut much like michael clarke did for the australian cricket team. in this book, jemisin gives us one of the best opening performances that i’ve had the pleasure of reading. i’m serious people: this is right up there with patrick rothfuss.i could rave all day about the storyline and how it had me guessing and fearful right up until the end, when it promptly went and spun me right round baby right round like a record player right round. i was so very happy with the way this book ended: not clichéd, not contrived, not a total departure from the rest of the story. which in and of itself is wonderful, because i’ll sometimes be happy with a contrived ending simply because it makes me happy. not this time. i was made happy through great storytelling as well as a happy ending.i could rave night and day about the characters, the intricate web of intrigue and manipulation and downright lying that takes place in this book to spin our lead character to her doom.i could raise time and again the virtues of the mythos that jemisin has created, the manner in which that mythos interacts with the world and the realism with which the people in that world interact with the mythos. the relationship that the people have with both their history and their gods is amazing and spellbinding to read, not to mention the relationship the gods have with their people.and i could wax poetically regarding the character development of our main character, the depths and hidden depths and unravelled layers of the supporting cast.but it all comes in secondary to the manner in which this book is written. jemisin flawlessly works first person-perspective together with train of consciousness to make a story that is really very hard to put down. the insights you gain as a reader into the character through this are more than just her reaction to the situation: it goes beyond that into the personality that forces that reaction. the at times early on confusing tangents and comments to us the reader – or is it to us at all, is she talking to herself – make this book more and more intriguing, beyond the intrigue that the story is already creating. and the way in which the story is told, not necessarily linearly and not necessarily not, is perfect for the character that ends the book compared to the one that starts it.all in all i haven’t come across a book this good since nation by terry pratchett, and he’s been writing professionally for several decades. n.k. jemisin has written a book that is at times smart, at times funny, and at times downright heartbreaking, all wrapped up in one of the most original stories i’ve had the pleasure of reading. this is a must for your bookshelf. this book is flat out 10 out of 10.10/10 this is a must for your bookshelf. this book is flat out 10 out of 10.


buy on amazon

review by joshua s hill
6 positive reader review(s) for the hundred thousand kingdoms
12 positive reader review(s) in total for the the inheritance trilogy series







the hundred thousand kingdoms reader reviews

lauren from united states
there is something to be said about authors that bring you into the realm of a different world, who's writing is so original that you buy it and more than that, it reels you in. jemisin did this so convincingly for me, that i've read this book three times. each time, the small description that is given for this book is, of itself, deceptive and i think that it isn't the book i must have read already. this book gives you a whole world: complete with social constructs, totalitarian rule, and broken gods. the main character is but a girl, born in a distant kingdom. her life is changed completely with the death of her mother. she is welcomed back into the bosom of the ruling kingdom due to bloodlines, but she isn't their largest fan. a strange place built on bloodlust, lies, and lack of weakness. her only friends are more than they let on and have an agenda of their own. this girl, can turn the whole world upside down. i have memories of this book that have left impressions so deep, i constantly remember scenes that i try to remember to recall the title. which is probably my only complaint. the title is in itself unmemorable in my opinion. hundred thousand kingdom... 100,000 kingdoms? i digress. i think my favorite thing about jemisin's writing is her complete understanding of social constructs and character emotions. her characters are relatable in various ways and she strives to show contextual acceptance of every flaw. something relatable to all readers. i love her writing. she is up there with patrick rothfuss (maybe even higher since she actually knows to how wrap up trilogies in a timely fashion)... just saying. maybe brandon sanderson is a better comparison.
10/10 (2017-08-07)







lills from usa
i'm grateful beyond words that this book exists. i finished it, found myself tearing up with absolute joy, and then read it again.
10/10 (2017-05-11)







phil from wales
i borrowed this from my library a while back but didn't get the chance to finish it at the time but i will most certainly be returning to it shortly as i found it unusual and fascinating. to dee from ireland: you call this predictable and average, and then try to compare it with the corny, childish, over-exaggerated slush of brandon sanderson! i can't give it 10 stars until i've finished it but will do so in the near future. and felt i had to air my views on dee's comments.
9/10 (2015-12-29)







joseph from killeen - fort hood
excellent work and once i started reading i could not put down.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







andrew from uk
why only 9.9 if it's a 'flat out 10 out of 10'? amazing book, going to save the sequel though, i have other things i want to read.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







eleanor from austin, texas
10 out of 10. i loved the book. there are some nits (scimina is just too evil to be interesting, and too much of a mad dog to be a convincing heir), but otherwise great story. a must read. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)









9.9/10 from 7 reviews

all nk jemisin reviews

dreamblood duology (dreamblood duology)
the killing moon (dreamblood duology: book 1)
the shadowed sun (dreamblood duology: book 2)
the fifth season (the broken earth: book 1)
the obelisk gate (the broken earth: book 2)
the stone sky (the broken earth: book 3)
the inheritance trilogy (the inheritance trilogy)
the hundred thousand kingdoms (the inheritance trilogy: book 1)
the broken kingdoms (the inheritance trilogy: book 2)
the kingdom of gods (the inheritance trilogy: book 3)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the final empire by brandon sanderson
(mistborn: book 1)





what if the dark lord won?the final empire, the first book in a trilogy by brandon sanderson, is a tale of a subjugated people known as the skaa, and their fight for freedom against a seemingly invincible god known as the lord ruler. the lord ruler has ruled this world for a thousand years through his inquisitors and obligators. the skaa who have been subjugated for so long are incapable of fighting back. that is until kelsier a mistborn who, along with his crew of mistings and other talented individuals, begins a rebellion against the lord ruler and the nobility. the mistborn are a special people who are able to burn metals to illicit different responses. this process is known as allomancy and vin, a member of a thieving crew, is enlisted by kelsier in his crusade to free the skaa.the final empire starts off with a gripping prologue and instantly holds the reader's attention with the excitement and anticipation of what is surely to follow. the writing is smooth and has an easy and accomplished style and the setting of this mist covered world is well crafted and thought out. it is immediately engaging and before i knew it i was a hundred pages in.the story is told through our two main protagonists vin and kelsier. both are well drawn characters and their motivations are clearly explained. they continue to develop throughout the novel and vin is a particularly alluring character as she battles against her role in this rebellion. both are users of allomancy. allomancy is the ability to burn metal through liquid ingestion and create certain responses such as added strength or enhanced senses. you will find certain similarities with magneto from x men and if you throw in those abilities from the characters of the eighties program monkey you will get an idea of what allomancy is and can do. the story features other players and these too are well crafted. as the book progresses we are further introduced to the character of the nobleman elend venture and we begin to see his perspective as well.in conclusion, it is book which i wholeheartedly recommend to lovers of fantasy who fancy something a little bit different. it is a book of good against evil, although it differs from other books in the way that it is told so that we are left completely unsure of the outcome. it has interesting characters and an original system of magic in allomancy as well as one of the better endings i have read for a long time. it is also a highly compelling read and has the right blend of characters and suspense to ensure the reader will be eager to seek out the following book in the trilogy.allan fisher (9.1/10)upon finishing the first in brandon sanderson's 'the stormlight archive' series which debuted two months ago, i knew i had to read more of his work. i had tried reading elantris but never gotten into it, but figured that i would give 'mistborn' a try as it has always received such high praise and rave reviews.i'm glad i did.'mistborn: the final empire' is one of the most stunning entrances to a series i have had the pleasure of reading, and it finishes the story that you originally think will take all three books to finish, in the first book, leaving for a much greater and deeper story then you originally suspected.that is always one of my favourite surprises.our hero is a heroine, vin, a 16 year old thief who starts off on the streets of luthadel and undergoes one of the most realistic character transformations i've read, with doubts kicking in all the way through to the end of the book while still coupled with reality in how to deal with those around her. in other words, she's not cooped up inside her own head with her doubts all the time, making for a realistic person you can get on board with and understand.the story itself is magnificent, and really did keep me clueless until the reveal in the last chapter of the book. i'm not the world's greatest literary detective, but any of my suppositions were entirely inaccurate by the end, another feeling i really enjoy.the sheer breadth of character development and depth is fascinating to read and makes for a group of characters that are captivating till the end. no matter what the age, there is strength in them, wisdom and a role to play.sanderson writes with such a skilful hand, blending perspectives smoothly with barely a hiccup, wrapping the story through the characters intricately, and ensuring that you are very much attached to everyone you should be, and hating those you should. the surprises are real, the emotions are real, and sanderson knows how to write a fantasy story like very few others.if you want to read one of the best fantasy books published in the last decade, then this definitely has to go at the top of your list. with two books you can read immediately after, characters that jump off the page, and a story that continues beyond this book but still leaving you fully satiated, mistborn: the final empire is a must have for any reader of good fantasy.joshua s hill (9.8/10)9/10 mistborn: the final empire is a must have for any reader of good fantasy.


buy on amazon

reviews by joshua s hill and allan fisher
20 positive reader review(s) for the final empire
63 positive reader review(s) in total for the mistborn series







the final empire reader reviews

brooklyn from australia
while the dialogue was awkward at some parts, overall this was a really good read. highly recommend it to anyone looking for a good fantasy book.
10/10 (2019-10-10)







andersen from kenya
i enjoyed this book very much. i liked how it could stand alone and i did not have to read the rest of the series to feel satisfied. i am not surprised about the cardboard characters considering the length of the book.
10/10 (2019-06-26)







richard from quebec
i agree with the other reviewers about the originality of the setting and of the magic system. it is a refreshing change, and i also enjoyed the politics - not as intricate, by far, as game of thrones, but it definitely adds a dimension to the book. however, i also agree with those reviewers who find the writing and pacing rather ponderous: the book is carried by the plot, not the characters, who are two dimensional even when they are ostensibly complex and self-contradictory: these self-contradicvtions do not seem to lead to much introspection or to any particular twists (though the book *does* have twists, and the ending is very good). rather, this introspection leads to pages of space filling text whiih adds little to the characters or to the plot. the fights are ok, but a bit repetitive once one has figured out how the allomantic powers work. so, i enjoyed the final empire - i needed a good (quick) read -, but am not getting into book 2 (well of ascension), probably because i now simply need a good read. i am sure, however, that i'll eventually get round to reading the whole series, as and when i need a little brain candy. to sum up: a good plot-driven read, average writing, highly original setting and magic system, but not a major classic (at least from where i sit!).
6/10 (2018-11-06)







catalin from romania
one of the best series i've read in a looooong time. i find this b sanderson an awesome writer, and since he finished my favourite series wheel of time i have to say you man rock!!!. after this mindblowing series ( who ascends thing left me with my mouth open and going...what the... f... it was so obvious and i didn't had a clue :)) ). then i went and read stormlight archives and i've gone.. you sir are rr martin's and tolkien's equal.
9/10 (2017-07-15)







xavier from austria
all things considered, i greatly enjoyed this book and will begin upon book two almost immediately. it was a good book. the 'magic' system was cleverly thought-out, logical and fresh. the main characters were strong and formed strong mental impressions. i found sanderson to be a very skillful author - the narrative felt like it had been carefully crafted using masses of notes and calculations. there was an admirable level of attention to detail and simple hard work. the reason my rating is a little stingy is that i felt the odd plot element felt a little convenient and the fight scenes left me a little cold, although i know that other readers have the complete opposite reaction to them. this was my third sanderson work after the rithmatist and short story in an anthology and i am happy to concede that i am fan. i feel in safe hands whenever reading his books. recommended.
8/10 (2016-07-15)







sarah from us
man, what a ride. people always acclaim authors who manage to twist our expectations, so there has been an unfortunate trend lately of not-so-good authors doing that poorly. sanderson, on the other hand, does it - and does it well. there's also how well the characters are fleshed out - they have doubts, they have flaws, but yet you can still tell they're on the side of good. too many authors use the "anti-hero", and that kind of hero is hard to sympathize with. however, while both characters have flaws and made major mistakes, vin and kelsier are both ultimately on the side of good. this was a very refreshing read in a multitude of ways, from a strong female character who still had feminine traits to the amazingly detailed magic system -seriously, it gets into percentages. this is the kind of book where you can still enjoy it without thinking too much, but it also stands the rigorous analysis of critical thinking.
10/10 (2016-02-13)







dan from canada
mistborn is yet another masterpiece that i find myself wondering how brandon sanderson can come up with such brilliant ideas.
10/10 (2015-01-16)







ginny from uk
every time you think you've guessed what will happen next, the plot takes another twist. the characters are awesome; although there are 'goodies' and 'baddies' they are realistic, with real strengths and failings and the ability to die. the fight scenes are well described, with enough detail to visualise exactly what is going on while keeping the suspense and excitement. at first i was annoyed at what i thought were logical fallacies in the magic system. i needn't have worried, as it was all explained slightly later in the book, and is really clever. the world and the creatures in it are designed really well. the text is a little unwieldy in places, but the plot will keep you hooked. there is always another secret...

9/10 (2013-01-28)







nick from uk
amazing concept absolutely original and inspiring! i loved every minute of the action and climaxes of all 3 books. howevre the writing style and narration was altogether clumsy and at parts (dealing with emotions) cringe y.
the change of story line and plot development from 1st to 3rd book was also impressive and refreshing. however i still found it hard to push past the writting, elend and vin were just awkward cliches and their relationship at times made me shudder. i am afraid you cannot compare the prose to martins got or other similar works. sanderson's writing in the past tense made me feel like i never actually new the characters only what sanderson wanted me to think... there was no chance for interpretation. i would definitely recommend this trilogy but not as a 'life changer'.
6/10 (2012-12-26)







a. bamf from amerrricaa
just finished the first book, and it's amazing. sanderson's prose is not that skillful or flowery like martin's but this works in his favor. though easy to read there's a lot going on in between the lines, which makes this an awesome read. i was skeptical going in to this but i can say without a doubt that this is definitely a book i won't forget for a while.
9/10 (2012-07-23)







gary from canada
the intricacy of magic systems is taken up a notch in this novel known as mistborn, the final empire. brandon sanderson introduces us to a world ruled by an immortal emperor and contains a mystical ilk that generate power through the consumption of metal allomancy. this highly original story became an instant success financially and critically throughout north america making brandon sanderson a force to be reckon with. the final empire is an intriguing world that has ash falling leisurely through the sky frequently from distant volcanoes. their cities are filled with slums cluttered with cruel peons and street urchins. on the upper class are the nobles that run the cities by conducting the work of the proletariat. as i ramble on you can notice that sanderson indeed cares about the social structure of his world. our antagonist is the emperor, the highest tier of nobility in luthadel. our protagonist is the young street urchin vin; the lowest class in luthadel. so, candidly speaking, the protagonist and antagonist of the novel are social opposites. already, i am enjoying the concept of mistborn. unlike our usual high fantasy favourites, mistborn doesn't contain sorcerers, trolls, elves or dragons but nobles and serfs (some with a mysterious ability to fly and propel energy by several methods). mistborn is so elaborate and exuberant in execution, yet it does not take away the mysticism. the story mistborn begins with vin and progresses with two others, dockson and kelsier. i found that these two male characters to be the most interesting and by far the most well developed. as for vin, she is clearly damaged emotionally but with these flaws only add intensity to her development. in my opinion, the story isn't really anything to revere over. the idea of a secret fraternity of mistborn skaa training to commit a usurp over the evil lord ruler is something i found a bit overused. but after reading the novel, you find that the story is not only embellished with the different methods of prose supplied by sanderson but modified. vin progressing with kelsier as a mistborn was excellently produced, it was so obvious how special this magic system was to sanderson that his passion was figuratively written with each word. by far one of the most commendable aspects of the final emperor is the scenes of action. every word sanderson uses seems to blend perfect creating a lasting mental image in your head. although there may be some cliched writing techniques added to each of the chapter's ending, i would find it hard to believe that any fan of fantasy find his writing anything other than immaculate. for anyone considering to read an exciting novel, mistborn will be my first recommendation although one may not find it like their typical epic fantasy. as we progress, we are introduced to knew characters which are generally easy to follow with. i found the addition of a romance between vin and the nobleman elend to be out of taste in this kind of novel. although i highly dislike juxtaposing the two, i found it to be too similar, in style, to titanic. although it is much different in content, the concept of the two social classes is far too familiar. another complaint would be the unneeded sentimentality added to the story, something that is unfairly manipulative and an addition any story really never needs unless absolutely necessary. overall, mistborn is a definite classic in this phenomenon of a genre. brandon sanderson proves himself to be a worthy protege of robert jordan and one of the greatest writers of our century, alongside steve erikson, robin hobb and george r.r. martin.
8/10 (2012-04-19)







hrishikesh from pune
has to be one the best books ever written. also the battle between vin and the 13 steel inquisitors has to be the best battle scene ever written.
10/10 (2012-04-16)







apellon from france
amazing books, i haven't read the third one yet but my favourite one was the first one... it's a masterpiece that could stand on his own... i liked the second book too, but it had this slightly displeasing wheel of time taste around the end... yet those books are amazing. i am going to read the third one as soon as i can. when people come and tell me "i've read game of thrones, it's pretty cool" or "i read the hunger games blah blah"... i tell them "shut up and go read mistborn and you'll understand what a good book is!". 
9/10 (2012-04-10)







jeroen from the netherlands
the first book i read from brandon sanderson and i am very impressed! the dialogues can be better sometimes but the story is very good. the magical way these people use the metals is a marvel of fantasty.
at the moment i am reading book 2 of the series and it is just as enthralling as the first one! 
9/10 (2012-03-01)







shell from winchester
have been reading fantasy for over half a century - to discover an original now makes me long for more reading hours in the day.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







meir from ny
the best 3 book series of all time. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







iyano
this is one of the best, no, the best book i've read. he has captured the emotions in a remarkable way and you don't doubt that it is real for a second when you read it!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







wouter from netherlands
by far one of the best books i read in years. i think it is better then the weel of time series. sanderson has the potential to influence the genre like tolkien did. awesome. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







ryan from newcastle, australia
this book is by far the best fantasy book i have read in years. sanderson has managed to take the seemingly stale genre of epic fantasy and reinvigorate it with a fully fleshed out world complete with intricate magic systems and complex charismatic characters. behind every secret is another secret...
10/10 (2012-03-01)







eric from quebec, canada
mistborn makes you think about many subjects such as hope, happiness and faith, which i believe are paramount in today's materialistic society. a nicely thought magic system, compelling characters, a very interesting plot and enough actions to keep you turning the page =)
9/10 (2012-03-01)









9.1/10 from 21 reviews

all brandon sanderson reviews

mitosis (a reckoners novel)
steelheart (a reckoners novel #1)
firefight (a reckoners novel #2)
calamity (a reckoners novel #3)
legion (legion series #1)
legion: skin deep (legion series #2)
legion: lies of the beholder (legion series #3)
mistborn (mistborn)
the final empire (mistborn: book 1)
the well of ascension (mistborn: book 2)
the hero of ages (mistborn: book 3)
the alloy of law (mistborn: book 4)
shadows of self (mistborn: book 5)
the bands of mourning (mistborn: book 6)
elantris 
warbreaker 
infinity blade: awakening 
the emperor's soul 
the rithmatist 
arcanum unbounded 
snapshot 
skyward (skyward #1)
starsight (skyward #2)
the stormlight archive (the stormlight archive)
the way of kings (the stormlight archive: book 1)
words of radiance (the stormlight archive: book 2)
oathbringer (the stormlight archive: book 3)
rhythm of war (the stormlight archive: book 4)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the shadow of the torturer by gene wolf
(book of the new sun)





to say that gene wolfe is a difficult author is both a compliment and a knock. in shadow of the torturer, the first in a four book series known as the book of the new sun, wolfe’s strongly allusive language is on full display. from character names to descriptions to articles of clothing, wolfe uses language in the most deliberate fashion. not a single word chosen by the author is random and throughout this novel, one can see the author’s love and command of language.shadow of the torturer is a far future setting, where the sun has cooled, leaving the earth (or urth as it’s referred to in the novel) a dying landscape. much of the first half of the novel takes place in a decrepit, dark city of medieval-style towers known as the citadel, which is where the guilds are traditionally make their home. from the lightless tunnels to the freezing necropolis, the citadel can be seen as emblematic of a dying culture and a dying world. the guilds that exist in this world are a throwback to the late-medieval, early-renaissance trade unions that took in people and trained them all their lives for specific duties. this juxtaposition of a far-flung futuristic setting filled with anachronistic social and physical constructs is disconcerting and atypical of this genre.wolfe utilizes a first-person narrative with the main character of severian, a journeyman in the torturer’s guild (the seekers of truth and penitence) who is cast out for the harsh crime of compassion. the character’s name is an interesting choice and quite deliberate. it is associated with severe, which means something very great or very demanding; but also sever, which means to cut off or put an end to. this is a primary example of wolfe’s allusive, mercurial nature as an author. the novel moves at a brisk pace and, unlike his contemporaries in both the fantasy and science fiction genres, wolfe does not waste any time on long explanations of the society and structure, preferring instead that such things be revealed through dialogue. this is not to say that there is no shortage of pontification. the novel is written in a translation style, meaning wolfe is acting as if he is translating the manuscripts of a much older severian who has taken to writing about his life’s experiences. the appendix at the end of the first novel acknowledges this setup and the word choices are explained as being necessary to translate a language that has not yet come into existence.concerning the tone of the story, the audience is reminded from time to time that these are essentially memoirs of the main character, which does take away from the narrative tension. in effect, you are reading a story knowing the ending beforehand, which i think is an admirable decision on the part of the author. by placing the ending of the story in the beginning, wolfe has essentially challenged his audience to come along for the ride just to see how the lead character gets to where he is. severian claims to possess not just an eidetic memory but a perfect memory and as such any contradictions on his part as the narrator are deliberate obfuscations.to say that the world of severian is grim is more than an understatement; it is unable to fully portray the stagnation and moral latitude the characters show. as befitting a torturer, severian is strongly ambiguous morally, capable of both deep affection and lust but also uncaring with regards to violence. the character oscillates between merciful (for one character) and detached when executing another and there is very little in the way of brevity from the main character. wolfe also takes his time despite the size of the novel in getting where he wants the character (and the audience) to go. there are no grand events in this narrative (another break from genre conventions). instead, wolfe relies on small events that culminate in substantial but subdued changes in the major character. in the beginning chapters of the book, severian shows mercy and cares for a wounded wardog. this compassion builds up inside the character, leading to the event that would cause his expulsion from the only home the character has ever known among the torturers.shadow of the torturer and the subsequent series are not for beginners in the science fiction or fantasy genre. wolfe’s prose is lyrical, dense, and filled with double and triple meanings. he is by no means an easy author to read. while he does not invent words for his world, he does use old, archaic language to fill in the gaps, which would force a reader to consult a dictionary (or in this day and age google) in order to understand the deeper meanings in the prose. i would recommend this book only to seasoned fans of the genre and it will probably require multiple readings to fully grasp what is hiding beneath the surface.9/10 to say that gene wolfe is a difficult author is both a compliment and a knock.


buy on amazon

review by nicholas king
5 positive reader review(s) for the shadow of the torturer
5 positive reader review(s) in total for the book of the new sun series







the shadow of the torturer reader reviews

martijn from netherlands
gene wolfe quickly has become one of my favourite authors, this series being his magnum opus. as mentioned in other reviews on this page, this is a classic that gets better with every read. very dense at some points, but very rewarding! warning: you might get obsessed with this series.
10/10 (2021-04-13)







david from united states
it goes so much deeper than the review even implies. i read this book once and enjoyed the atmosphere a lot but thought the characters were flat and the plot was random nonsense that was impossible to get into. i'm finally reading it a second time, six years later, with a lot more difficult books under my belt, with the intent to push through the entire series with a friend. let me just put it this way--severian would love for people to think he got expelled from his guild against his will for showing compassion to a prisoner. it's a fantastic story, that paints him in a good light. that doesn't necessarily mean that's actually what happened...
10/10 (2018-07-17)







terranaut from australia
i agree wholeheartedly with nobody from usa. how this book, the series of the new sun and the final culmination in the urth of the new sun get overlooked is beyond me. granted they are dense in allegory, symbols and obscure references which may elude casual readers but much like any great sf series, the joy of really understanding what wolfe is crafting is often only apparent on the second, third or even tenth read. i have read the series annually for more than 20 years and each year wonder at the efficiency wolfe achieved whilst conveying a great depth to the character and setting. casting the main character severan as an unreliable witness yet with a perfect memory is, in my opinion, a stroke of genius that only really plays out in subsequent reads. from a technology point of view, wolfe has an unparalleled ability to imagine a future so distant that dozens of civilisations and their advancements have thrived and perished leaving a technology detritus of objects and infrastructure that behave in such a way that may well be magic to the current inhabitants of the world. recently there was an announcement that science had created a colour blacker than black. wolfe anticipate this 30 years prior with 'fuligin' the material that clothed the main character. minor perhaps but speaks to wolfe's thoughtful approach as to what may be possible. the science, the technology and the time scales are impeccable thought through. albeit this is a work of fiction. even so, the word fuligin has an etymology derived from sooty and this is the type of delight that awaits those who take the time to investigate closer. at heart i think it's a (classic?) story of a person who had the belief that they were someone much more than where their station had landed and hence i think, a character which is deeply relatable for many - especially a young boy who found the shadow of torturer lying in a gutter whilst doing a paper round! if you're a fan of sf read it. if you're a scholar of sf, you've work to do. just pray they don't make a film out of it and remove the best parts where your imagination fills in the blanks whilst you go on a journey with severan.
10/10 (2018-03-28)







rapha�l from france
poetical and unconventional, this novel is an original approach to sci-fi and fantasy ideas. wolfe's fanciful narrative and style create a remarquable and sophisticated setting that reads like a riddle. i am eager to go on discovering urth's mysteries ! (note for french readers : the translation is of high quality.)
8/10 (2014-10-18)







nobody from usa
wow, the fact that this book has no reviews and game of thrones has a never-ending page of them really says something about the intelligence of the average reader today. if you have not read this book, and are a fan of complex writers like borges, who write deep, multifaceted characters, you simply have to pick this up and read it. you won't regret it. urth truly is an alien world, and wolfe's gift for arcane language really helps to put you there. a fascinating concept, filled with fascinating settings, creatures and characters. i shed a tear to think there is a single literate fan of sci-fi who has not been exposed to this incredibly gifted author.
10/10 (2014-04-25)









9.4/10 from 6 reviews

all gene wolf reviews

the shadow of the torturer (book of the new sun)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




jade city by fonda lee
(the green bone saga #1)





i received a review copy of jade city in exchange for an honest review. i would like to thank fonda lee and orbit books.although presently at a time of an uneasy peace, the city of janloon is controlled by two rival groups which are the no peak clan and the mountain clan. the families that run the clans are powerful and world famous as they mine and control the jade. jade is a precious stone that enhances a warriors capabilities in six disciplines: strength, steel, perception, lightness, deflection, and channelling. a "jade warrior" becomes more formidable and herculean when they earn and flaunt more of the jewels. there is a great focus on honour and tradition with how jewels can be obtained. when youngsters graduate from the warrior academy they can earn their first jade but it's mostly obtained by the victor from a deceased rival following a duel or skirmish. these phenomenal powers and the potential have not gone unnoticed by the black market who are trying to get in on the act of distributing the highly sought after stones through unsavoury means to individuals who have not earned them. interestingly though, for the untrained it is like a drug, overuse and withdrawal can lead to madness and death.the entire narrative has an oriental feel to it with a focus on clan life, traditions and martial arts. i'd say this book is a mix of to's - election, coppola's - the godfather and the jade can give it's wearers powers reminiscent of those seen in lee's - crouching tiger hidden dragon. in fact, i often forgot i was reading a fantasy book as the stunning worldbuilding created a picture to me that all this was happening in a 1980's hong kong. lee has created a world of immense depth. from gods to complex clan hierarchies, to intricate past character relationships, to the science behind the fighting scenes. some of the gang titles may seem unfamiliar at first but they never seem confusing and are cleverly caressed into the reader's mind. the hierarchy seems military-like in its presentation and the clans have a pillar > weather man and horn > luckbringers and fists > fingers > students.the real stunning standout element of jade city is the exceptionally deep and fully realised characters. the pillar lan is calm, intelligent and respected but runs his clan in the shadow of his grandfather. his brother hilo is the horn and essentially the street armies general. his soldiers are fiercely loyal even if he flaunts an action first and ask questions later approach. shae is their sister who is returning following studying abroad at a time after a spat where her family turned her back on her. finally anden, the adopted cousin who's currently in his final year at the training academy. how they interact and work together with the threat of an upcoming turf-war is brilliant. there are about eight point of view characters, the above mentioned included but i truly don't think there was a weak character anywhere in this narrative. there is a complexity surrounding this book’s ensemble that is rarely seen in the first book of a series. the character progression is also exquisite as the times change, motives are influenced, and the running of their businesses are affected.this is the first entry in the green bone saga and i honestly can't wait to see what happens next. i didn't care about anything else whilst i was reading this and i just wanted to see what would become the characters. there are some emotionally shocking moments, some intricate and otherworldly fight scenes, and lots of loyalty, honour and tradition. jade city is an epic, unique and often unforgiving gangster fantasy narrative intertwined with glimpses of hope and goodness. the haunting nature of the world is also mixed with betrayals and a huge death toll. recommended.8/10 an epic, unique and often unforgiving gangster fantasy


buy on amazon

review by james tivendale








jade city reader reviews



8/10 from 1 reviews

all fonda lee reviews

jade city (the green bone saga #1)
jade war (the green bone saga #2)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




magician by raymond e feist
(riftwar saga: book 1)





the story begins in crydee, a frontier outpost in the kingdom of the isles. an orphaned young boy named pug becomes a master magician’s apprentice and two world’s destinies are forever changed. the peace that he has known all his short life disappears and is replaced by war in the shape of invaders from another world. a magically created rift in space brings together the two worlds, the world that pug has always known and the world of the invading tsuranuanni.tomas will inherit a legacy of savage power from an ancient civilization. pug's destiny is to lead him through a rift in the fabric of space and time to the mastery of the unimaginable powers of a strange new magic...this is an epic tale of intrigue and action. raymond e. feist has an amazing imagination and here he brings to us a war between two worlds reminiscent of medieval europe and japan in the time of the samurai. this book is not short (650+ pages) but it never feels overly long as the fine narrative guides you effortlessly through the story. the character development is also excellent and they come alive in your mind and leave you genuinely caring about what happens to them. the plot twists plus the use of two culturally different worlds make for very interesting reading.the story is set in midkemia, a world created by feist which also includes an impressive back history. this is the first (and by far the best) of the series called the riftwar saga. silverthorn and a darkness at sethanon complete the trilogy.the chapter in which pug sees the beginning of worlds is possibly one of the finest in fantasy literature. magician was voted the 89th most popular book of all time in the bbc's big read top 100.this is an extremely powerful and memorable book. if you gain any enjoyment whatsoever from reading fantasy then this is a novel that you simply cannot afford not to read. understandably, this is one of the highest regarded books in the world.floresiensis, 9/10i do not have the fond recollections nor nostalgic associations about feist that many people seem to. i read magician about 12 years ago in my early twenties, but remembered extremely little about the novel, and as i couldn't get hold of any other riftwar books at the time i simply let things be. rereading magician, (this time with the rest of the riftwar series on hand should i wish to progress to them), it is unfortunately obvious to me why magician made so little impression the first time around, despite the fact that on both occasions i was rereading the author's longer revised edition of the book from 1992, as opposed to the previous shorter version published 10 years before, since while magician does undoubtedly have elements, concepts and passages that are extremely engaging, for the most part the book is clearly and obviously, the author's first novel. magician tells the story of a war between two very different worlds bound together by a rift in space-time. it begins, and remains for most of it's length on the world of midkemia, a world which will be decidedly familiar to anyone with even a passing acquaintance with fantasy literature. human kingdoms governed by a feudal monarchy, tough, metal mining dwarves, magical long lived pointy eared elves, goblins, dark elves, and dragons guarding treasures. i was not surprised when i read that feist based his first novel heavily on a dungeons and dragons campaign, since the influence, even some of the language of the popular role playing system is used in a rather obvious way, dwarves with their "strong constitutions", speaking of a creature "unaffected by physical weapons" or of a character's "skill set".of course, it is entirely possible for writers to take standard fantasy tropes and twist them in new directions, or through sheer mastery of style make them appear enthralling, new and unique to the reader. sadly, feist seems to have been playing it extremely safe for much of the novel's time in midkemia, since his descriptions of such creatures as elves and dwarves are brief, even cursory, focusing only on that feature which the creatures are famous for, short dwarves, elven ears etc, indeed the only time he seemed to raise his game in the medkemian part of the novel was when describing a golden dragon lying upon its treasure, (as well as visions of the glorious past of a world ruled by dragon lords), or a ship battling across storm tossed seas.it is not just in the book's landscape that feist's descriptive writing tends to be patchy, but even in describing such events as intensive battles or chases through dark woods. in general i frequently found my level of immersion in the prose lacking, mostly because it felt as if feist was reliant on his reader's own imagination and liking for dwarves and elves and battles to fill in the gaps that his description missed out. indeed, while feist's overall rhythm is not in itself slow, he makes no deviations in this rhythm to change the action, thus meaning a lady's dress is described with the same sparsity as a goblin ambush, which caused me to feel a disconnection with both.the other world however, kelewan is where i felt feist really showed his calibre as an author. though apparently also partly based upon a role-playing setting, it is a much less well known one, and one which consequently feels far more strange, dangerous and in general fascinating to explore.though kelewan does bare some similarities to the china or japan of the past, such influences are far less evident than the medieval european ones in midkemia, there are no wandering samurai, kung fu monks or fan waving elegant ladies. from its rigid social order and byzantine political machinations, where anyone can be made a slave and where death is held greater than dishonour (a highly eastern idea), to even its creatures and aesthetics which include humanoid insects and six legged half lizard cows as riding beasts, kelewan feels a very alien place, and i was sorry that the book spent so little time there as compared to the comparatively drab world of midkemia.in terms of his overall plot structure, feist is it is true capable of producing some massive shifts in his characters’ fortunes and unexpected twists. the story for example follows pug, and tomas, two boys (one an orphan), who grew up in the keep of crydee. tomas predictably wants to be a warrior, while pug becomes an apprentice to the keep's magician. when pug's uncontrolled magic saves the duke's daughter from an attack by trolls, it seems fairly obvious where the romantic plot of the book will go, however feist circumvents things rather nicely and takes pug's destiny into a very different direction.the problem with this approach though, is that for all his twists and turns, feist just does not engage with emotions either through character or description enough to make any of them effective. the romantic relationship mentioned for example simply involves carline, a princess who insults pug at every opportunity before randomly deciding to throw herself at him and love him eternally. pug, as a young boy must obviously desire to fight constantly (despite the fact the small and studious pug seems the last person who'd want to), and most characters simply appear universally amicable with little by way of distinguishing marks of personality, indeed frequently feist seems to expect us to care about a character simply because he's said they are noble or clever or (in the case of the extremely few female characters), beautiful. while he does attempt to make his characters grow and change (not surprising in a book that spans about twelve years), mostly his execution of this is extremely heavy handed, usually by simply telling us that someone has changed, or suddenly having a character alter their attitude in an instant, and since said attitudes are usually drawn with extreme lack of subtlety the changes didn't come off so much as actual growth as simply feist switching archetypes, okay we've gone from roguish boy to noble leader now. this lack of character meant that i found it hard to empathise with many members of the cast, meaning that scenes or twists which by rights should have been nerve wracking simply felt flat, for example when one character is nearly killed during a castle siege i really felt little concern as to whether he died or not, despite the fact that again one of feist's few double x chromosome characters was busy saying (based on not very much by way of interaction), how much she loved him. again however, when the plot turned to kelewan i found a distinct upswing in quality. this was partly because pug is first brought to kelewan as a slave, and indeed it's made infinitely clear just how low his life expectancy is, giving us a sense of danger and unpredictability heavily lacking in other parts of the book. even in terms of relationships, a scene in which the young pug plaintively asks a friend for advice about women because a fellow slave seems to find him attractive and he doesn't know how to cope did actually make me feel a tinge of empathy, and though predictably pug's girl simply falls for him rather quickly, the romantic section between them, set as it was against a background of slavery in an alien world was one of the few relationships in the book that did make me care.as well as more at stake for his characters, the tsurani empire on kelewan gives us a fascinating political game, indeed feist freely admits that in the revised edition he expanded this aspect of the book which definitely shows. i found the idea of a political system which contrasted absolute loyalty to family, clan and the tsurani empire itself with shifting loyalties to political parties with different concepts a truly interesting one. in particular, i was very pleased by the way that the war on midkemia was not merely the master work of some evil, expansionist dictator, but just one more move in the on running political game. as with much of the kelewan section of the book, i was sorry that feist didn't explore this aspect further. this part also concludes with pug's training in magic, and with his vision of the history of the world of kelewan and the tsurani empire. this vision is a truly staggering piece of writing. colourful, exotic, and sweeping with dark hints of a much wider and more complete story, everything i would expect from epic fantasy, indeed much of my frustration at feist's paucity of description for a lot of the novel is my knowledge that when he tries he genuinely can evoke that sense of awe and wonder which is such a great experience. as well as its overall flatness and shallow characters despite some unexpected twists, i will also admit some details of feist's plot are decidedly uncomfortable. the first of these are some of his attempts at humour, many of which can come off as cruel. for instance when the castle's rat catcher alerts the duke that besieging tsurani forces are under the walls, due to the fact that one of his ferrets has had its back broken by being stepped on, and both the unconcerned duke and the reader are plainly supposed to find the man's distress at his animal companion's agonizing death comical. in another sequence, a protesting carline, wishing to help in the battle is forcibly shoved into a cellar to remain safe with the other women and even threatened with being tied up if she doesn't comply, a sequence which feist obviously intended to have the roguish tension of han solo and princess leia, but which just amounted to having carline demeaned and treated like a little girl.finally, feist does include one sequence which, though stunningly described does have severely uncomfortable implications for a modern reader. this is when pug, a fully fledged magician grows angry at the tsurani gladiatorial games and decides to use his magic to destroy the stadium, killing innocent commoners, scheming lords and pretty much anyone else present judging them all guilty. of course, in 1982 when the book was first written, or even during its revision 10 years later, the idea of a lone maverick who, angry at some supposedly unjust aspect of society or culture walks into a public place and causes massive devastation and indiscriminate loss of life with his personal weaponry was probably not quite as relevant as it is today. the fact that pug feels no remorse for this action, acted deliberately and even took time to kill those trying to escape makes the action even more questionable.of course, there are works of epic fantasy which ask us to have different relation to war than that we would normally have, but where heavily martial writers like david gemmell are at least careful to make sure the mighty heroes only vent their rage on the enemy, feist's callous lack of thought of the slaughter of innocents here in his huge magic smiting was to me definitely an oversight, and quite an uncomfortable one. also on a purely structural perspective i found this an unsatisfying conclusion to the kelewan political plot. the book's final section returns to midkemia, and despite the introduction of a mysteriously powerful magician and a conflict over the kingdom's throne, i will freely confess the last few hours were a slog in the extreme, mostly due to the fact that the battle for the throne simply involved a disagreement between which of two fairly bland characters would be king about which i simply did not care, and the disappearance of an ineffective evil duke (we know he's evil, his name is preceded by the word black). it is interesting that where with the tsurani politics with its shifting game and loyalties feist succeeds in creating something fascinating, because the midkemian politics is based on one of his weaker aspects, character, it was far less engaging. indeed the fact that feist takes so much time in the ending section to attempt conclusions for some of his characters, but that said characters were people i really did not care about meant that finishing the book was far more a duty than a pleasure.all in all i have to say magician was a disappointment. feist plainly has an ability to write gorgeous and sweeping descriptions and to construct entangling plots, however his decision to restrict himself not only to a very standard world, but to not use his descriptive gifts on this world, along with his inability to actually write depth into any of his characters which would give his twists of plot any sort of emotional punch severely impacted the novel. it actually surprises me to learn that feist was 37 when magician was written, since with its broadly drawn characters and seeming total lack of understanding of relationships, i would've assumed the book was the work of someone much younger. clearly, magician was a first effort, and what's more a first effort in which feist played things very safe, borrowing heavily from dungeons and dragons and standard fantasy tropes and not risking anything more complex with his characters, despite the fact that judging from certain parts of the book, he does have the ability to do so. magician does have some undoubtedly superior aspects, the problem is that for the most part, these are eclipsed by it's many flaws.if in his future work feist plays to his undoubted strengths rather than his weaknesses and matures as an author, i can imagine him creating something truly astounding, but sadly magician isn't it.dark, 4.2/109/10 one of the most read and well known fantasy books


buy on amazon

reviews by floresiensis and dark
47 positive reader review(s) for magician
94 positive reader review(s) in total for the riftwar saga series








magician reader reviews

harry from sheffield, uk
i would say this is one of the most engaging books i've ever read; i cannot wait to get home after work each day to continue the story. raymond has a natural talent at keeping the reader engaged with the story; there never seems to be a dull moment. if you're wondering whether to read this book, wonder no more - read it!
10/10 (2021-04-21)







isabelle from england 
i live this series everything about it is amazing it is so different to any fantasy book i have read they have to same consent of magical creatures but its very different and you will get angry and sad and happy were it supposed to be, the first chapter is a little slow but form then on you can expect no boring pages at all yeah i have nothing bad to say about it.
10/10 (2020-06-10)







hullo from england
really good for older kids.
10/10 (2019-08-02)







jonathan from uk
i think this one of top 5 books i read it in 82 the original edition ,and have seen some of the reviews that he borrowed from other books ie dungeon and dragons this is not true it was before most had been written and indeed they used some of his ideas ,read it and enjoy but remember much time has gone by and many books
9/10 (2018-07-30)







alex from united states
i would say that this book is a very good book.
10/10 (2018-02-03)







heidi from australia
amazing! never stops, leaves you wanting more... if only i could read faster. i am in love!
10/10 (2017-01-03)







matt from usa
i have read this series and all of feist's books many times. i enjoy fantasy and have learned over the years, readers either love or hate his style. i have friends i have lent these books and they would give them 10 out of 10 like me, and others who would say like 4 out of 10. those who give it one star clearly are bitter people- really? a world wide best seller and it is a one star? ok, not your style, but one star means it is completely unreadable and loaded with misspellings, double words and inconsistencies...silly people. i love this series and loved all of his follow up books. review was weak at best and it sounded like it came from a whiny millennial who needs shiny objects and their iphone in there face instead of the book.
10/10 (2016-09-30)







paolo from italy
in magician feist cleverly melds a tolkien-inspired pseudo medieval world with a world reminiscent of ancient china. and this is where i think the main strength of this novel lies. to be honest much written is standard fantasy fare but it is, like all good books, utterly compelling. the action never lets up, the individual stories of pug and tomas hold the reader's attention equally. it's a big, and i mean big book, but readers of fantasy should be used to and comfortable with its length. although i did enjoy the book and would recommend it to others, i must mention that i have never felt compelled to read any other book in the series. magician, for me, is a great stand-alone fantasy novel, one which had a large impact on the genre.
9/10 (2016-01-16)







ra!y from ireland
simply unmatched.
10/10 (2015-12-05)







mark from australia
as good a book as you could wish for, the author paints wonderful vistas with his imagination of a world and its alien aggressor. he seemlessly weaves many different themes into a rich tapestry of lore all his own, this the first book in the series is pure brilliance and well worth the read by any fantasy fan.
8/10 (2015-06-03)







joshua from usa
a wonderful series. highly recommended!!! have read the series twice so far.
10/10 (2015-02-13)







manny from nigeria
i think it's one of the best fantasy books i've ever come across. raymond feist has an amazing imagination. i'd never get tired of reading it again. what i'd love is seeing this amazing story come live on screen. how soon are we to expect it?
8/10 (2014-03-10)







buyos from uganda
i read this book in 1992 way back when i was a kid & i came to this forum searching online for whether hollywood had become wise enough to make an epic out of it. this book was really a good read, for it's still seared in my memory 20 years later. i too can't wait for the movie.
8/10 (2013-10-07)







sue from uk
i first read magician in 1994 & loved feist's unpredictable plots, the way he draws you in with action, adventure and promises, only to deliver something completely off the wall & leave you gagging for more. i have practically read everything he has published & have most of it in hard back, i'm such an avid reader. i have just started his whole works again for the third time, starting with magican and still thouroughly enjoy it, even though i know what's going to happen. to be compared to tolkien is high praise indeed, i'm sure he would be very flattered. for those who think carline should have got with pug, well, those of us who have been around a bit know it would never have worked between them & pug's destiny lies elsewhere, if he had married her, there would never have been the adventures and loves he encountered later on. good plot writers look at the bigger picture, the long haul of their characters and dont confine them to a single volume, often the story carries on and develops beyond your wildest dreams- but then, you'd have to read them to know...
10/10 (2013-04-26)







from from from
a fantastic read! to anyone who felt the characters were deep, i recommend reading magician: apprentice and magician: master. feist really fleshed out the characters, and by doing so split the original book into two. that might help you enjoy this book as much as i did! 
10/10 (2012-12-28)







tommy from australia
i like all the early feist, but none compare with magician as a stand alone. i read it at thirty and loved it and loved it just as much at 55. one of the best three fantasy books along with dune and lotr. say what you will it is certainly a feisty read.
10/10 (2012-12-07)







morgan from aus
great character development and suspense.
10/10 (2012-10-29)







darren from ireland
all i can say is when is the movie ... great book hooked from page one...
10/10 (2012-07-31)







alexander from ryan
i read this book first when i was 11, and again when i was 20ish, am reading it again now and am 45. i still am totally absorbed by the story, the characters and find myself reading into the night and still delighting in the twists and turns. i guess some people don't get it but i am so happy i am one of the ones that do. i plan to read it again when 85 and am sure i will still get as much pleasure then as i did 34 years ago. magnificent. (please to hear it alexander, i plan to re-read it after a gap of over a decade and hoped it would be just as good second time around. lee, fantasy book review) 
10/10 (2012-07-11)







not telling from oz
i loved this book. nothing was at all wrong. sam from chicago was completely wrong.
9/10 (2012-06-21)







kurt from queensland
this book was excellent, after having three people recommend it to me i decided to pick it up, and i'm glad i did! the only reason i give this nine stars was because when something climatic happened, the book changes to another path in the story. for example, when pug was captured i had to wait 80 pages to find out, or when tomas was lost in the mines, i had to wait another 80 or so pages to find out how that turned out. but nevertheless, a good book. :)
9/10 (2012-05-28)







shane van der straaten from london
simply the best fantasy novel of all time. and a side note... criticism of this novel should not be deemed valid by anyone who says - carline should 'of' been with pug, and would 'of' made a happy reunion @cody from nz. also @sam from chicago and those who agree with him/her... i have to agree with the others who insinuate that he/she sounds like a frustrated writer who hasn't been published. as for lotr, i like to view the comparisan to magician as like looking at the first automobile compared to a ferrari... just because it was first and original does not make it the best. lotr...drag on much?
10/10 (2012-04-23)







adam from england
generally a very good and well developed book, with a gripping narrative and characters the audience actually cares about! the only real criticism i have about the story is the way pug doesn't end up with carline, it just seemed a bit pointless to go to all that effort to establish the young romance, only to later say 'oh by the way pug's getting married now' in the space of a single chapter.
8/10 (2012-04-10)







dana from australia
i would give it a billion stars if i could, but ten will do, a simply amazing book and series.
10/10 (2012-04-01)







troy from australia
i actually enjoyed the various series by feist. having said that i believe that he made some significant blunders in the magician and a lot of them have been already covered. i think one of the largest mistakes with the magician was that he made pug and thomas too powerful. i don't think feist could have imagined the success his books would have and this early mistake led to contradictions in later books as he tried to balance the various enemies. credit where credit is due and it can't be denied that he has produced some very popular books. i have spoken to many people that have read or tried to read the magician and i found that for the most part that the readers read the first page and were hooked or read the first page and never bothered to go beyond that. 
7/10 (2012-03-12)







joshua from kent, uk
this, and the series in general is the best i've read. i agree with most the people on this site with reviews, but the select few who write bad reviews have no reason to do so. they may not like the book but what they say makes no sense. the characters certainly don't talk 'robotic' or 'one-dimensional' the character development and speech is very well done. there is no way this book could've become an international bestseller if what these people say is true. the characters are wonderful and likeable and of course, the story is great. it is the best in a long series and with little bad to say about it.
to me, it seems the people who have written the bad reviews think of themselves as superior as they think differently. theses books, in my opinion, are superior to tolkien. whilst certain aspects aren't, it is a very good book and series. if you are new to fantasy or a 'veteran' it is worth the read.
10/10 (2012-03-05)







anit from engand
the book that hooked me on fantasy fiction. i have read it, probably, more than 20 times since picking it up 25 odd years ago... for those crying hackneyed and cliched - remember published in 1982... blazed a trial that has been improved and developed since then, but a great read in it's own right - the trilogy as whole holds up incredibly well in my opinion... the rest of the canon... less so. can't belive some of the 1 and 3 star reviews... must be reading something else!
9/10 (2012-03-01)







paul from leighton buzzard
as someone who has only been reading fantasy literature in earnest for the past couple of years (i had read lotr as a teenager and kept coming back for more, until a good friend recommended robin hobb's farseer books, and i was hooked!), i felt it was incumbent on me to read the classics of the genre.
with this in mind, i picked up magician for a couple of pounds on amazon.
i'm going to be clear here: this book is not "great" in the way that lotr is great, but it is very good indeed. it also fails, in my mind, to live up to the modern classics (i'm thinking of robin hobb, scott lynch, r. scott bakker and patrick rothfuss here) in terms of sheer originality, although i concede that it was written 25 years ago and is in all likelihood an influence in itself on all of the authors i've just mentioned.
i found it a little hackneyed in places if i'm being honest - like a book i'd read before. there are also places where the dialogue is quite americanised, and for me this removed the suspension of disbelief feist works so hard to build up throughout the book.
having said that, it was very absorbing, and by the time i was a hundred pages in i was well into it and rooting for pug and tomas.
i find the whole concept of the two worlds quite intriguing - the worlds themselves are hardly unique (one 12th century europe, and the other samurai-era japan), but the rift is a great concept and allows a real clash of cultures to take place, which is for me what kept my interest throughout the book.
it should also be noted that the chapter where pug sees the beginning of the empire is, in my opinion, one of the finest pieces of stand-alone literature i have ever read - up there with not only some of the fantasy greats, but some of the finest english-language writers of all time.
all in all, i don't regret reading this book, and i intend to at least complete this trilogy before making a decision on whether or not to continue with feist's frankly immense back catalogue.
7/10 (2012-03-01)







colin from perth, australia
a book very close to my heart. short of cash while living with friends, i picked up magician one weekend and couldn't put it down. i've read every one of feist's novels and haven't read a bad one yet.
to sam of chicago: before you rip into the works of a man who is a best selling author please, for the love of god, stop using words you don't know the meaning of. in the age of spell check, there is no excuse for you to have such bad spelling and grammar. especially someone who is aspiring to be a novelist. so take the hate speech, jam it up your arse and go back to reading books with pictures, you dickhead. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







rob from stamford, uk
read this 20 years ago when i was 15 and have been hooked on the ongoing plot ever since. even 20 books in (i think) with a kingdom besieged i'm finding it almost impossible to put down.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







shell from winchester
having read magician had to buy rest of series - and was not disappointed.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







david from the netherlands
i completely agree with sam from chicago here. although the book was enjoyable to read, especially at the second half, it is not 'great'. feist`s writing is bland and simple for a big part. there is a lack of scenery descriptions and character development and the dialogue is just annoying at times. despite these things the book has a very good plot and in the end i found it to be an enjoyable read. it just doesn't equal the best fantasy books out there.
7/10 (2012-03-01)







aliaofdune from romania
i found this to be an exciting fantasy book with a well developed plot, good twists and a great background. it is set in an apparently not such an original world, but as the book evolves we learn more about the very creation and foundation of the world and the surprises are abundant there. i loved the descriptions of the environment as well as the whole intrigue.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







allen toby from melbourne
this book is my favourite book in the world. it's intresting and it's cool the way they do things. my favourite part is when they go in to war and he stops the war.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







anthony from cardiff
sam from chicago - i am afraid you are wrong, this novel is a superb piece of work. pug is a legend!
9/10 (2012-03-01)







peter from scotland
i don't believe it's possible for me to do this book justice in a mini review. so instead i'll just say that by far and away 'magician' is my favourite book and raymond feist my favourite author (and i don't see this changing anytime soon).
10/10 (2012-03-01)







josh from new south wales
this is a truly fantastic novel, that i have read to within an inch of its life; front and back covers long disintegrated, i managed to read it in a day and every time i pick it up again, i have to read it, the hold that it has on me is so truly magnetic!!! @sam from chicago; i do not know what you are on about, but like rob and rave say above, please show me your own work before judging a master writer of the first class. truly feist's best novel to date.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







rave critic from australia
sam from chicago as above, please grow up, and do not spend your whole day writing a vapid and substance less response to a novel that you have obviously loved. magician is a wonderful text, embodying all of the aspects of the traditional fantasy genre, and the day that anyone gives it one star on a reviewing site is a sad day for humanity. poor sport, mr. sam, as i don't see you writing a fantastic novel that has so many fans around the world and is still on the top 100 after being published decades ago! a simpleton name or even alter ego as your personality has been shown to be through your writing. even the evidence in this case, would go against you.
when you write a novel as classic, fantastic and as masterfully crafted as mr. feist, you just let me know and i will rate it for you. i wonder what your children will grow up as, if you do indeed have any, with such a sad, hopelessly judgmental father as you are. brilliantly indignant rave critic.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







rob from huddersfield
@sam from chicago. did you read the same book i did? what do you want from a book? if you think you can do better, which apparently you do, then you write one and get it published and sell hundreds of thousands of copies.
you have no taste whatsoever. stick to reading comics.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







jack from southampton, uk
i came to this series late when i stumbled upon 'magician' in a second hand book shop. i only read the first chapter and then dropped the book when the latest in a different series came out. i forgot about the book for about a year but when i went back to it i finished the whole book in a weekend and went straight out and bought the sequel the next weekend. while i didn't continue at this speed through the whole series, i did get up to speed with the then 23 other books in about 2 years i have loved every book so far and am eagerly anticipating the final trilogy. the only criticism is that the book is somewhat cliche both in the plot and the setting. however on both points, setting especially, this improves as the series goes on.
8/10 (2012-03-01)







allan from bridgend
it is about 15 years since i read this and the following books in the series. i remember being spellbound by it and falling in love with pug and tomas. at first the size daunted me but once i started i could not put it down. i have since recommended it to my wife and mother in law, and while these do not read fantasy they both read the whole series and loved it! i have also now discovered a new book to read called 'the king's buccaneer... awesome!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







raj from solihull, uk
magician was passed to me by my brother in law and i read it after reading the likes of gemmell and tolkien as i was looking for something new. the book itself is a very good read but there are instances when the detail is lacking. some of the dialogues are worn albeit entertaining. all in all - a book worthy of a read and the writing style of this author only gets better as you go through the series(s).
9/10 (2012-03-01)







fantasy reader
fast pace, good characters and long plot coming together at the end. what more can you ask of a fantasy story?
9/10 (2012-03-01)







dean from portsmouth
a great book with a free flowing and exciting narrative. one of the best of feist's stories alongside the mistress of the empire series.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







dan from tunbridge wells
this book is superb and i still remember writing a letter to the publisher after i read it (i was 15, so perhaps a little over-keen), suggesting he write sequels. little did i know what was already in the pipeline.... all - most - of the midkemia and kelewan stories have been fun, but some part of me wishes he'd stopped at either the end of magician or a darkness at sethanon. everything since then has lessened the impact of this book somewhat. it's been a great cash cow, but it would have been good if he'd been able to write about a completely different universe. that said, i'm looking forward to reading wrath of a mad god... albeit a library copy
10/10 (2012-03-01)







ed from nottingham
if anyone is new to the fantasy genre and doesn't really know what book to start with - this is the one! this is an enjoyable, exciting book which is well written - and is very easy to read. the character development is probably the best in any book i have ever read, and you really feel for the main character and share the experiences.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







duncan from scotland
i have read many, many fantasy novels and this was one of the first. i find that this is still one of the best. the fact that the story concerns two worlds makes this one of the most interesting, thought-provoking and enjoyable novels. a must read for any fantasy fans but it is a shame that raymond e feist never reached these heights again.
9/10 (2012-03-01)









9.3/10 from 48 reviews

all raymond e feist reviews

riftwar saga (riftwar saga)
magician (riftwar saga: book 1)
silverthorn (riftwar saga: book 2)
a darkness at sethanon (riftwar saga: book 3)
the chaoswar saga (the chaoswar saga)
a kingdom besieged (the chaoswar saga #1)
a crown imperilled (the chaoswar saga #2)
magician's end (the chaoswar saga #3)
flight of the nighthawks (the darkwar saga #1)
rides a dread legion (the demonwar saga #1)
daughter of the empire (the empire series: book 1)
king of ashes (the firemane saga #1)
krondor: the assassins (the riftwar legacy #2)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




tigana by guy gavriel kay






does it seem ironic to anyone else that i’m rereading a book from 20 years ago for this review, and the book itself is about memories? to those of you unfamiliar with tigana, the storyline is about loss and memory. to those of you familiar with tigana, you may find yourself in the same frame of mind as i was.i was 19 and fresh out of fionavar when i snatched this book off the shelf. i was totally swept away by the grand scope of the adventure that the young singer devin d’asoli found himself in. how could any young person not become the character themselves to live the life of adventure? imagine one morning you are singing the funeral eulogy of your life and have just made your career. then by dinner, you find out that everyone around you is not who they seem, and you yourself have been identified as a potential hero. i know this farm boy had found himself a place to hide for a while.so now here i am 20 years later finding myself back with a gang of old friends. alessan di tregea, catriana d’astibar, and their counterparts, the tyrant sorcerers brandin of ygrath and alberico of barbadior.the story is unfolded through the eyes of devin who is invited into the group of conspirators to right a wrong done to the nation of tigana and its people. devin’s relative innocence of the situation has to do with this history. when brandin of ygrath attacked tigana to expand his empire and give his son stevan a place of his own to rule, the unthinkable happened. the peaceful and artistic nation tigana resisted, and stevan was killed in a decisive battle. in grief-stricken rage brandin destroyed the wonders of tigana and cast a spell which made the name tigana unable to be heard by anyone but a native of tigana. in effect destroying the soul of the country and the will of its people by making it impossible to remember or even know about tigana except amongst themselves. the cunning and patience of alessan’s plans of revolution to regain his nation make this book hard to put down once things start coming together.but what truly made me see the brilliance of this book, was reading it again after all this time. i remembered the adventure and tension of their journey through the countryside like it was yesterday. except this time i noticed all the subtleties of emotion that my young personality missed. what i realized is that life experience and maturity improved this book and made it even more powerful the second time around. especially with dianora, where we see the often ignored “other side of the story.” i highly recommend this book to readers of all age groups as it is so well written that just the story without the emotional attachment made it one of my favourites all those years ago.the review copy came courtesy of penguin canada who very kindly supplied us with the extra special penguin celebrations edition. penguin group (canada) published this edition of tigana in a traditional penguin design in celebration of being named 2008 publisher of the year. for more information, visit penguin canada.tigana is not being printed in the uk. however, visitors world-wide can order from the chapters.indigo.ca website where they can order both the penguin celebrations and original versions of tigana.10/10 an immense achievement, a complex and loving piece of writing


buy on amazon

review by george roesch
9 positive reader review(s) for tigana








tigana reader reviews

joanne  from canada
one of my all time favourite books. the story is spellbinding and will rob you of sleep as you turn the pages. if you like tigana , then you should definitely read a song for arbonne.
10/10 (2019-03-18)







rory from uk
sheer brilliance.
10/10 (2015-05-31)







katieb from london
i recently read (and reviewed) this book and thought it was stunning, good fantasy is an all-consuming thing. every character was strong and my only compliant was that sometimes the characterisation was a little lost as the plot took hold. but all in all a great read. check out my review at: http://iwillwritewithit.blogspot.co.uk/ katieb
8/10 (2015-03-15)







keno from estonia
perfect book.
10/10 (2014-03-20)







erika from england
the first 2 chapters seem incredibly boring and long-winded. however, i was persuaded by friends to keep reading the book. it all paid off, as tigana is an enchanting tale that is hard to put down, even if it is quite hard to read (compared to many other books).
10/10 (2012-08-31)







andy from reading
i thoroughly enjoy the way guy gavriel kay writes to the point that i now have all his books. tigana is a brilliant book which i felt was engaging, well paced, had multi-faceted characters and showed the conflicts the characters had with themselves and others in a creative manner. a must read.
9/10 (2012-03-22)







karen from liverpool
quite simply the best fantasy book i've ever encountered...an epic story in one volume which is an achievement in itself. only regret is that i can only give it ten stars....
10/10 (2012-03-01)







linde from new york
best fantasy book after lotr.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







firus from malaysia
i recently picked up this book at a second-hand book fair and was i glad that i did! i read the fionavar tapestry many many years ago and enjoyed it (and i agree with the 8-star ratings). i'd heard of tigana by then but for some reason never felt the urge to pick it up. it was probably a good thing, because i completely agree with mr roesch in his review above. twenty years ago i probably wouldn't have enjoyed it as much as i did, but now i consider it to be one of the best books i've read. it's definitely one that will stick in my heart for a long long time, and thoroughly deserves a 10!
10/10 (2012-03-01)









9.7/10 from 10 reviews

all guy gavriel kay reviews

tigana 
the lions of al-rassan 
the fionavar tapestry 
under heaven 
a brightness long ago 
the summer tree (the fionavar tapestry: book 1)
the wandering fire (the fionavar tapestry: book 2)
the darkest road (the fionavar tapestry: book 3)
sailing to sarantium (the sarantine mosaic #1)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the last unicorn by peter s beagle






i'm quite honestly surprised i haven't come across peter s beagle's the last unicorn before now. after all, as a fantasy loving child of the eighties i should at least have seen the animated film, even if the usual bugbear; lack of audio availability, kept me from reading the novel that inspired it. fortunately, one of the happier consequences for me of the digital revolution is an access to media, both audiobooks and animated, that i hadn't experienced before, so this is a lack we can easily fix, and (as indeed several characters in this book prove), one is never too old for tales about unicorns.the unicorn has lived alone longer than she can remember, taking her endless time as it comes, walking beneath the summer trees of her wood, blessing the land with her presence, and occasionally letting herself be glimpsed by mortals. she doesn't think to question anything, because unicorns just are. all this changes however when she overhears a hunter in her wood describing her as the last unicorn in the world, and sets out to find out what has become of the rest of her kind.gathering companions along the way such as schmendrick, the world’s worst magician, and molly grue, a lady looking for a new life, the unicorn will confront monsters both human and inhuman, becoming the object of greed, avarice and even love, and find that ultimately the only way of avoiding the terrifying fate that has befallen the rest of her kindred is to change her unchangeable self.the first and most obvious thing about the last unicorn, is that the book is as much poetry as prose. published in 1968, a time when descriptive writing wasn't so often dismissed as unnecessary filler, the book's style is simply gorgeous, combining simile and metaphor with fairy tale language and emotional honesty into true word painting. it is easy to see why writers such as patrick rothfuss and neil gaiman count beagle's book as a favourite; citing it as a heavy influence in their own work. also like gaiman, beagle is able to drift from the mundane, to the fantastic, to the terrifying with consummate ease. despite the very protagonist and title character of the novel being a fantastic creature whose wonder and beauty is a major point in the story, it's a testament to beagle's skills as a wordsmith that i never felt his descriptions of the unicorn's unearthly appearance became overly florid. also, like gaiman, beagle is able to switch subject matter and apply his descriptive gifts equally to the fantastic, horrific or even the mundane, able to show how flawed, human and frequently even plane characters such as molly were, yet never be dismissive of their qualities, making their very flaws something almost admirable.speaking of characters, i admired the way that nobody here is quite what they seem on the surface. schmendric for example meets the unicorn when he frees her from captivity, the act of a seemingly decent person, yet at times can be arrogant, a little mean and (in his pursuit of bettering his magic), even occasionally completely self-regarding, if not actually selfish. molly grue meanwhile, far from being the kindly princess or naïve young girl we'd expect in a tale about unicorns, is actually a seasoned woman in her thirties whose already been disappointed by life, and whose wonder at the unicorn is tinged with regret. these nuanced depictions even go as far as having the soldiers of a wicked king prove to be more than faceless minions, and the wicked king himself being as pitiable, as he is villainous.then again, beagle never lets his desire to be fair to his characters turn him too far away from being epic, indeed the monsters in this book are truly as monstrous as the wonderful creatures are full of wonder, as of course they should be, since what is any fairy tale without its light and shadow.unfortunately, beagle does fall into the trap that many heavily descriptive writers, from erin morgenstern to mervin peake have before, and get to the point where it is the poetry, not the actual force of the events in the plot or the pace of the writing that carries matters forward. of course, this isn't to say the book doesn't contain surprising ideas to explore, such as a town of people cursed to prosperity who still lived severely austere lives since they were so afraid their prosperity would end, or a magical menagerie caught somewhere between shoddy trickery and lovecraftian reality. however, amazing though many ideas are, they usually just seemed strung together like pictures in a gallery with an on running theme, or different movements of the same symphony rather than the careful stone by stone building necessary to create a really tight plot. of course, part of this is just the nature of fairy tales, after all there is no other genre of stories where you can legitimately have characters do something just because a cat suddenly started talking and told them so, or where "the magic", can just decide to change the hole direction of the story because that's what magic does. however, even in the best written fairy tales (such as niel gaiman's stardust), there is at least a little internal consistency and coherence, and an idea that the world has rules, even if we don't entirely understand them.this lack of momentum also meant that when beagle's individual situations didn't capture my attention, there wasn't really much of a central narrative to ride on. one passage for example, when schmendrick was captured by a band of outlaws and their swaggering leader, a passage which first hammered the captain's archetypal egotism a little too hard, and then referenced robin hood as historical character, mythic figure, legend and even summoned spirit in the same scene simply fell flat. in general, the book's occasionally rather anachronistic and self-referential references to real world historical ideas and literary tropes reminded me unpleasantly of some of the more hard going aspects of t h white's once and future king, with its constant historical and political prevarication, which was not really something i cared about much when set against the monsters and magic.that being said, there were still plenty of moments beagle's superlative style simply carried me along, the unicorn's confrontation with the book's major antagonist, albeit a confrontation which seemingly comes out of nowhere, is one of the most sheerly terrible things i've read for quite some time, and a chapter i won't soon forget.unfortunately, the book's second half almost overstays its welcome, partly due to the unicorn herself. for half of the plot, the unicorn remains more of a catalyst than a character, and though she is the one on a journey to seek her people, she tends not to act herself, but promote action in those around her, whether schmendrick's desire to help her out of a bad situation, molly's longing for her regard, or just the many simple villagers who try to capture what they perceive to be an ordinary; if extremely beautiful, horse.this makes sense given what beagle says about unicorns, and that their nature is presumably quite elemental.however, halfway through the book, the unicorn is turned into a human by a magical accident, giving beagle the perfect chance to have her grow, and experience life and change. the problem however, is she doesn't, she remains simply more of a figure than a character. admittedly beagle, with his usual descriptive flair, tells us in detail of her confusion and disorientation at her new human form, especially when a prince starts paying court to her. however, the unicorn herself does not really alter her outlook or experience much of human feelings along the way. she goes from being an aloof, immortal, amazingly beautiful magical creature, to being an aloof, mortal, amazingly beautiful princess.i'd have loved to see the unicorn learning far more about being human, having friends, growing, changing, perhaps even helping molly in the kitchen or even (grim forbid), being a mite less than astoundingly beautiful! unfortunately this is not what happens, she simply remains, passive and cold and distant upon a pedestal while others (especially the poor prince), run around on her behalf.this is particularly problematic for the book's conclusion, which centres around the unicorn's ability to experience love. however, "love", in this case seems extremely one sided and stylised to the point of tropes, with a prince desperately trying to win the unicorn's affection or even get a kind word out of her, and her being unresponsive as a porcelain doll, no matter how many acts of rather overblown knight errantry he commits on her behalf. with the prince introduced at such a comparatively late point in the novel, and all the damsels he saves and dragons he slays given a rather ironic and almost cynical description, i thought the point was perhaps going to be that both he, and the unicorn, had to actually experience real, down to earth, none stylised human love, (especially with molly's exasperation at the pair of them), however this never appeared, and in the end beagle seemed to indicate that this impersonal process of a beautiful woman remaining silent and unapproachable whilst a man throws himself into ever more baffled efforts to become worthy of her really was the essence of "love." from any other writer i'd accept this as a genuine miscalculation, especially for a book written in the sixties when stories of knight errantry and courtly love were far more in the public consciousness than they were today, but for beagle, who otherwise shows himself to be so nuanced, and who even acknowledges the intrinsic coldness of fairy tale tropes, this seems an extreme oversight.all that being said, the writing is just so plain good, that much of the time, i found myself just skating past character inequity, especially when it came to fantastic landscapes or gorgeous monsters, and even if from a character perspective i didn't find the courtly affair of the prince and unicorn to be particularly convincing, at the same time, beagle's evocation of this in the final confrontation still worked as a static word picture, if not quite a moment of character, something which was true of the unicorn's final destination as well. fortunately, beagle did indicate slightly more for molly and schmendric, letting their journey continue, even as their current adventure came to an end, and subtly hinted at where their characters (both sadly far more developed than the prince or the unicorn), could end up in the future.the last unicorn is an odd novel. it contains many nuanced characters, even down to its villains, yet a rather cold protagonist whose journey isn't really what we think it should be. it contains a plot which jigs and jags and occasionally lapses almost into parody, yet encompasses some wonderful ideas executed with absolute skill. above all, it contains some of the most honestly lovely writing i have seen. is it a truly timeless classic? with its anachronisms, odd asides and slightly jerky plot, perhaps not. a classic however most certainly, and one which every lover of fantasy should definitely experience.8/10 where now the horse and the splendour, and the horn that was glowing?


buy on amazon

review by dark
4 positive reader review(s) for the last unicorn







the last unicorn reader reviews

lyle from united states
this book is the greatest fantasy novel of all time, in my view. its lyrical writing, its memorable and very human characters, and its exploration of mortality, immortality, and the meeting of the two never fail to move me. looking across the various beagle books that i've read so far, each one has to do in some very deep and profound way with love, and loss, and the value of love... which in the case of the unicorn becomes important enough to surrender immortality to possess. there are also recurring themes of loss and grief, and the contemplation of the meaning and purpose of life (and death). beagle's beautiful, carefully wrought prose tends to grab me even at the individual sentence level, and his paragraphs manage to say, or imply, much more than most writers' do. i'm left humbled, and deeply thankful that such a thoughtful heart as beagle's would share so generously of his feelings on such universal and important themes, and thereby enrich our sense of our own lives and selves. few such writers have ever existed.
10/10 (2021-03-16)







nadine from austria
i fell in love with the movie first but the book is fantastic, even if you already know the story. beagle brings a depth to his prose and characters that makes every page enjoyable. the writing is lyrical and beautiful and every word has its place. there is literally nothing i would change about this story. a full review can be read at:
http://sffbookreview.wordpress.com/2012/05/17/peter-s-beagle-the-last-unicorn/
9/10 (2012-10-16)







sharon from us
one of my favorites as a young teen. really pulls your heart.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







heather from new zealand
my favourite fantasy. it is one of those stories that will not leave your head, and when you read it you don't quite know whether to laugh or cry. it's poignant and hilarious by turns, the writing is lyrical and beautiful, and the unicorn is everything i ever half-dreamt a unicorn had to be. it is one of the few truly magical books i have ever read, and even this praise is too little. there's a novella-length sequel called "two hearts", which has many of the same qualities and is therefore fantastic, but nothing - *nothing* - matches the original.
10/10 (2012-03-01)









9.5/10 from 5 reviews

all peter s beagle reviews

the last unicorn 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




watership down by richard adams






fiver could sense danger. something terrible was going to happen to the warren - he felt sure of it. so did his brother hazel, for fiver's sixth sense was never wrong. they had to leave immediately, and they had to persuade the other rabbits to join them. and so begins a long and perilous journey of a small band of rabbits in search of a safe home. fiver's vision finally leads them to watership down, but here they face their most difficult challenge of all...watership down is a book which will always hold a special place in my heart. it has captivated and moved me for over three decades and i do not believe this will change for what i hope will be a further three. it has the elements that i enjoy in a story: a quest, the journey, plus the bravery, belief and inability to accept defeat. the rabbit characters are glorious: the nerviously intelligent fiver and his kind, loyal brother hazel. the no-nonsense bigwig, the controlling woundwort and the ingenious blackberry - all are rich and wonderful to spend time with.watership down was a book i read as a child and which helped my younger self to distinguish between what was right and wrong, and led me to explore such concepts as governments not only ruling by fear but purposefully keeping citizens scared of supposed threats in order to control them more easily.most people have either read the book already, possibly as part of their english literature syllabus, or seen the film. i would recommend watership down to any who enjoy reading good literature.here is some of the critical acclaim that has been placed upon the book:"a gripping story of rebellion in a rabbit warren and the subsequent adventures of the rebels... adams has a poetic eye and a gift for storytelling which will speak to readers of all ages for many years to come" sunday telegraph"a masterpiece... the best story about animals since the wind in the willows. if not better... it is very funny, exciting, often moving... it is also educative and tough. these animals are shot, gassed, choked in snares. when the bucks fight they rip each other with their claws" evening standard"a great book... a whole world is created, perfectly real in itself, yet constituting a deep incidental comment on human affairs" guardian"a literary work of uncommon merit" the new york times book review"from blood and the thump of fear to the pleasure of good feeding, the discovery of new surroundings or the texture of the day, we are immersed in the rabbits' world... one might, at the same time, be reading some gripping escape story, the rabbit characters are so totally credible" the times literary supplement"an impressive, immensely readable story, held together by a powerful imagination that soon forbids disbelief" new statesman"the beautifully written and intensely moving story is the work of an extraordinary imagination... a classic of animal literature" sunday telegraph10/10 a masterpiece which will speak to readers of all ages.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
8 positive reader review(s) for watership down







watership down reader reviews

jamie from japan
good book!
10/10 (2017-06-08)







ida from virginia
it was not a good book. it was an amazing one!!!!! if it was a movie, alan rickman (snape) would have made a great general woundwort.
8/10 (2017-01-19)







luke from classified 
truly amazing.
10/10 (2017-01-16)







luke from durham north england
i read watership down at a very young age, perhaps ten, indeed it was one of the longest books i'd read at that time excepting lord of the rings. as such i found it completely enchanting in its world, mythos and characterisation of rabbits. returning now however, particularly after reading william horwood's duncton series i am less taken with waterhship down over all. while i would still recommend the book and would not disagree with its status as a modern classic, it nevertheless does have its share of flaws and problems, particularly in comparison to horwood's work.
undoubtedly, both the natural research upon the life and times of rabbits, and the building of a complex and rich rabbit mythology with some allusions to a lapine language are some of the books major strengths. however, despite this deep seated background, adams does not do quite as well when it comes to characters, mostly due to his rather uneasy combination of the natural and the anthropomorphic.
for example, though his rabbits have all the behaviours of natural rabbits from fighting and mating to rather uncontrolled breeding, his psychological or linguistic explanations of the thought processes of his characters can often seem cold and somewhat overly analytical. whereas horwood in duncton wood or tad williams in tale chasers' song simply state that animals feel human emotions or have ideas that progress the plot, and thus achieve a level of identification with their characters, adams painstakingly embarks on something of an in depth and somewhat scientific explanation of many of his characters thoughts and behaviours. for example, explaining how rabbits have little concept of time or art, or how the idea of something floating on water is alien and how rabbits must avoid a panic state just for me served to make adams' rabbit characters less believable. where as with other works of animal fantasy i could genuinely believe! animals possessed human intelligence and emotions, adams rabbits came across as some sort of half human, very alien beings and thus far less identifiable to me.
this coldness in characterization was also emphasized by the fact that adams frequently, instead of talking about the rabbits in an in universe style, alluded to robinson cruso or other human figures, thus making it more obvious that he is a human writer discussing somewhat distant rabbit characters.
the impersonal feeling was also not helped by the fact that even when adams attempted to assign individual character traits to single characters, they simply proved to be an example of that trait. leadership, helplessness, loyalty, humour, intelligence, it almost felt as if adams was afraid to give his rabbit characters more than one identifying characteristic each, which also served to make the book's character development pretty negligible, there are no loves or friendships here that do not exist upon initial meeting, indeed love or companionship beyond specific family ties are totally absent, a stark contrast from both the other works of this genre that i know.
all that being said, watership down still has much to recommend it. not only the mythos of the rabbits, but also the countryside of england is represented very completely, albeit with slight scientific allusions in places. still, i could well imagine the geography of this book, even more because it's places and atmospheres are so immediately and primally drawn to the readers' senses.
a couple of passages even dip into a mystical or dreamlike quality, especially when discussing rabbits who have some precognitive abilities, but adams detailed yet matter of fact style is able to blend these experiences flawlessly with the rest of the work, and while perhaps the poetic in me does cry out for a little more in the way of mental and emotive richness in these places, it can't be denied that these sections do add considerably to the overall quality of the book rather than seeming out of place .
perhaps the major climax for me was the different rabbit society encountered in the warren of efrafa. while this social structure does not match those created by williams or horwood, the idea of different political groups with their own practice and laws still working under the constraints of the natural life of rabbits was very unique.
i also appreciated the points when in the novel, adams gave us a view of the rabbit characters from the perspective of humans, and how even a little girl who keeps pet rabbits could become a malevolent figure, yet adams is too careful a stylist to just make this a preachy work of "look at the nasty humans ruining nature" and for all the gassings, predation by farm cats and dogs, road buildings and other unpleasantness there are points that show the better side of humans as well.
all in all watership down is a very well written book, and one which at the time explored a bold new territory, albeit that those few writers who have entered into that territory since adams have for me done something of a better job particularly when it comes to characters. i would still however distinctly recommend this book to anyone who loves nature and the natural world or is interested in exploring new and unique perspectives.

7/10 (2012-12-19)







shell from winchester
never thought talking rabbits would get me - but if this is read as allegory - strong stuff.
7/10 (2012-03-01)







nicole from berkeley, ca
the book that is the benchmark for all good animal fiction. the film 'watership down' can also be nominated for 'best animated film that traumatized generation x." 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







rm byrne from harth
one of the greatest stories of the time. taking place in rural england, it brings back the age old theme of life on the run. two brother rabbits lead a devoted band of friends away from a predicted disaster to find a new home. this book introduced characters to me that have changed my way of thinking.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







david from maidstone
fantastic book - a must read. it's a really moving story about rabbits leaving their warren to set up life in a new warren. they are led by a rabbit who has apocalyptic visions of the future of the old warren. tremendous stuff!
8/10 (2012-03-01)









8.7/10 from 9 reviews

all richard adams reviews

watership down 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the magicians by lev grossman
(the magicians series: book 1)





quentin coldwater’s life is changed forever by an apparently chance encounter when he turns up for his entrance interview to princeton he finds his interviewer dead – but a strange envelope bearing quentin’s name leads him down a very different path to any he’d ever imagined.the envelope, and the mysterious manuscript it contains, leads to a secret world of obsession and privilege, a world of freedom and power and, for a while, it’s a world that seems to answer all quentin’s desires. but the idyll cannot last – and when it’s finally shattered, quentin is drawn into something darker and far more dangerous than anything he could ever have expected…lev grossman knows and understands the academic elite. his time spent - and the experiences gained - living and studying at harvard and yale have been used to good effect in the creation of an ambitious and compelling urban fantasy titled the magicians.on first glance the reader may be forgiven for thinking that this is simply another novel about gifted youngsters attending a school of magic, albeit aimed at a more mature audience. they would be mistaken. the author has taken all that is held dear in the fantasy genre, reverently (most of the time) tipping the hat to rowling, tolkien, lewis, le guin and others, and shown it from a completely different and unique angle.the magicians is split into four books, all markedly different. part one mainly deals with the discovery of the magical academy (called brakebills and hidden to the none-gifted), and the subsequent training in the arts of magic. the second book deals with the difficulties faced by students when their education is over and they are faced with the stark reality that is working life and responsibility. in the third book the fantasy elements take full control as we enter the magical (more so) world of fillory (think of a tim burton realised narnia). by the beginning of the fourth and final book the reader is completely hooked and grossman delivers the final flourish with a thrilling climax and an extremely satisfying ending.the characters that inhabit grossman’s worlds are flawed and very, very realistic. the thoughts and behaviour of the late teen / early twenty-something’s whose lives we follow are excellently, and sometimes uncomfortably accurate. from the casual alcoholism to the hormone-controlled behaviour, the way these people behave will leave many cringing as they recognise themselves amongst the far-from-perfect ensemble.the narrative is precise and well constructed as works well with grossman’s style of characterisation, which is often reminiscent of stephen king, particularly in the way that quentin, eliot, alice and others gain faces and step lifelike from the page as soon as they are introduced. the author also shows an admirable eye for detail and an obvious talent for human observation.  the book has many highlights, one of them being the magical school of brakebills south, situated in antarctica. the except below describes quentin’s first impressions of this magical place:“stone for stone, board for board, brakebills south was the same house as the house at brakebills. which was reassuring in a way, but it was incongruous to find what looked like an eighteenth-century english country house planted in the middle of a soaring antarctic wasteland. the roof of the west tower was broad and round and paved with smooth flagstones, with a stone wall running around the edge. it was open to the elements, but some kind of magical arrangement kept the air warm and humid and protected it from the wind, or mostly. quentin imagined he could feel a deep chill lurking underneath the warmth somewhere. the air was tepid, but the floor, the furniture, everything he touched was cool and clammy. it was like being in a warm greenhouse in the dead of winter.”the magicians: marie byrd landthe magicians is a book that will likely divide opinions leaving very few sitting on the fence. the majority will love it but there will be some that will detest it (ardent potter and narnia fans possibly). the fantasy genre always needs an author to come along a show it in a different light and this is exactly what has grossman has done. he has injected sexual tension and questionable morals into a school for wizards and the result is a rousing, perceptive and multifaceted coming of age story that is both bright and beguiling. the magicians is a perfect fantasy book for older teens that will find that the author understands them, and their feelings, possibly better than they do themselves.lev grossman was born in 1969, the son of two english professors, and grew up in a suburb of boston. he graduated from harvard with a degree in literature and went on to the ph.d. program in comparative literature at yale, although he left after three years without finishing a dissertation.9/10 a multifaceted coming of age story that is both bright and beguiling.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
6 positive reader review(s) for the magicians
12 positive reader review(s) in total for the the magicians series series








the magicians reader reviews

michael from usa
it was a fascinating read--one can never guess what's coming! however, the entire time i read it i kept wondering what the point of brakebill's was supposed to be. i mean, what were graduates supposed to do; what was their purpose in life? were there any guidance counselors? (tee hee) even liberal arts graduates usually have some idea as to what they want to do! as these students came to graduation, there seemed to be no place to go. was there something there i missed?
7/10 (2020-05-04)







ruth from usa
cross between c l lewis narnia and j k rowling harry potter.
10/10 (2020-02-10)







guy from israel
a great book, part of an even better series.
9/10 (2018-08-30)







corey from michigan
sometimes grossman tends to get too caught up in the details, and suddenly switches his focus to something else, making you believe he either gave up on an idea mid-way, or that he suffers from a.d.d. and its apparent even in his finished writing. aside from this irksome habit, i found this to be a painful, refreshing fantasy novel, that almost destroys it's own place as a fantasy due to how realistic it feels. forget the petty teen angst harry potter and friends face, the magicians is crammed to the brink with reality; apathy, depression, sex, drugs, alcohol, fumbling for purpose and happiness. i found myself assuming he would take things one direction, and much like life, i found myself hoping or expecting for something much different then what he gave me. this novel is by no means typical to the genre. it's been a week since i finished it, and i still find myself personally tormented by the ending, and waiting extremely impatiently for the sequel.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







steve from augusta, georgia
rarely in the genre do i not know how the book will end. i think you can't have enjoyed any of the best fantasy books and not felt something for this one. it very much brings the whole idea home again, after traveling to all of those far away lands. it was a pleasure.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







derek from us
best fantasy book all year. highly recommended.
10/10 (2012-03-01)









9.1/10 from 7 reviews

all lev grossman reviews

the magicians series (the magicians series)
the magicians (the magicians series: book 1)
the magician king (the magicians series: book 2)
the magician's land (the magicians series: book 3)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




alice's adventures in wonderland by lewis carroll






what’s down the rabbit hole?a hot summer’s day on the riverbank, and young alice is bored. bored, that is, until a white rabbit in a checked jacket scurries past in a great hurry, examining a pocket watch. burning with curiosity, alice can’t help but follow the rabbit down the hole which leads to a long passageway – and a tiny door too small to get through.so begins alice’s adventures in the amazing world of wonderland. in the pages that follow a strange liquid will shrink her to only ten inches tall; a curious cake will disappear before her eyes; a mad hatter will invite her to tea – and alice will play a very dangerous game of croquet…the character of alice is based on alice liddell, the ten-year-old daughter of an academic at christ church college in oxford, where author lewis carroll studied and taught. carroll would tell alice stories to entertain her: alice begged him to write them out and he presented them to her in 1864. he was later persuaded to publish and, after further additions, the book as we know it today appeared in 1865, including the famous illustrations by john tenniel.alice in wonderland was lewis carroll’s first novel and its fantasy plot, humorous rhymes and brilliant use of nonsense was revolutionary. nineteenth-century children’s writing usually served moral or educational purpose, but  alice was written firmly and purely for the amusement of children. critical response was lukewarm, but the book was still a great success, and remains a hugely influential classic of children’s literature.alice appeals to adults as well as children and over the years readers and critics have found within it all manner of riddles, puzzles, mathematical concepts and references to carroll’s famous and not-so-famous friends.lewis carroll was the pen-name of charles lutwidge dodgson, born in 1832 in cheshire in the north of england. his father, the local rector, came from a family of distinguished scholars and clergymen. dodgson continued the academic family tradition and studied mathematics and theology, eventually becoming a mathematician at oxford university.he first began to write comic poetry and prose in the 1850s and had several pieces published in magazines, where he first began to use the name lewis carroll. in 1856 he met four-year-old alice liddell who was to inspire the book which made dodgson’s name, alice’s adventures in wonderland, published in 1865. the book was an immediate success, was translated into many languages and soon established itself as an english classic. its sequel, through the looking-glass, appeared in 1871. their revolutionary combination of word-play, humour and nonsense had never been seen before in writing for children. his other great masterpiece of nonsense is the poem the hunting of the snark (1876), and other books for children including phantasmagoria (1869) and sylvie and bruno (1889).charles dodgson never married and remained at oxford all his adult life, where he wrote several books on mathematics and logic as well as devising board games and brainteasers. he was also an expert  photographer, famous for his portraits of children and many artistic personalities of the day. he died in 1898.9/10 its fantasy plot, humorous rhymes and brilliant use of nonsense was revolutionary.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
17 positive reader review(s) for alice's adventures in wonderland







alice's adventures in wonderland reader reviews

ashu from india
good book
9/10 (2019-11-20)







kartik from india
i love this book and the review is wery nice, i like the review.
10/10 (2019-10-27)







nimisha  from india
it's a nice book with adventures.
8/10 (2019-07-07)







pranjal  from india
thank you for taking the time to write this book, it really makes a difference and helps the readers to find their perfect book .
10/10 (2019-02-22)







kunsang  from nepal
i love that book. it was intresting.
8/10 (2019-02-10)







jennifer from u.s.a.
i loved the book so much i read it twice! it was amazing, some parts were confusing, but it was interesting and exciting. if you haven't already read it, you really should!
10/10 (2018-03-25)







hannalore from uk
i found this book interesting! i know you should never judge a book by its cover, but it is really good from the front and the blurb too. this is never from reality but i wish it happened!
10/10 (2018-03-02)







shruti from india
very well ! i usually get bored by such books. but this one was nice, good better, best !
9/10 (2018-02-25)







chloe from united kingdom
interesting book that shows no sense of reality but i believe that it is cleverly written.
8/10 (2017-12-07)







sonika from nepal 
it was amazing and wonderful to read this.
10/10 (2017-10-17)







ojesvi from india
this book is very interesting . i liked it very much.
9/10 (2017-06-03)







ayush from india
this book is quite interesting.
10/10 (2017-05-25)







k from england
it was a bit confusing and the vocab wasn't very good. also not that interesting...
7/10 (2017-02-23)







shreya from india
it is quite an interesting book, i loved it.
9/10 (2016-12-25)







gauru from india
it was a fantastic plot. i liked it as is a story of a small girl.
10/10 (2016-10-18)







navi from uk
it's an awesome story, i loved it.
10/10 (2015-10-17)







terence from england
alice's adventures are so wondrous and magical, that the reader cannot help being drawn into a fantasy world. lewis carroll created many unforgettable characters and situations for alice to encounter. readers of all ages will be captivated by the book's charm and humour. top quality literature.
10/10 (2015-02-04)









9.2/10 from 18 reviews

all lewis carroll reviews

alice's adventures in wonderland 
through the looking-glass 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the princess bride by william goldman






beautiful, flaxen-haired buttercup has fallen for westley, the farm boy, and when he departs to make his fortune, she vows never to love another. so when she hears that his ship has been captured by the dread pirate roberts - who never leaves survivors - her heart is broken. but her charms draw the attention of the relentless prince humperdinck who wants a wife and will go to any lengths to have buttercup. so starts a fairytale like no other, of fencing, fighting, torture, poison, true love, hate, revenge, giants, hunters, bad men, good men, beautifulest ladies, snakes, spiders, beasts, chases, escapes, lies, truths, passion and miracles.first published well, in 1973 actually, this book spawned the rob reiner-directed cult film of the same name. it's a tongue-in-cheek fairytale of love, life, action, death and life again. featuring the obligatory handsome prince and supremely beautiful princess, it also boasts a spanish sword wizard, the zoo of death, a chocolate-coated resurrection pill and lots of villains, who span the spectrum from evil, through even more evil to (gasp) most evil. and then there's fezzik, the gentle giant addicted to rhyming. william goldman--who's won two oscars for his screenwriting (butch cassidy and the sundance kid and all the president's men), and has endeared himself to dentists and their patients planetwide through his novel marathon man--has always claimed he merely abridged this text, extracting the "good parts" from an inventive yet wordy classic by florinese literary superstar, s morgenstern. it has, however, been whispered in certain circles that morgenstern himself is a figment of goldman's ultra-fertile imagination. read goldman's original and special anniversary introductions and make up your own mind. oh--and don't forget his explanation as to why he's only "abridged" the first chapter of the sequel buttercup's baby--which appears here for the first time--and why it took him so long to get round to it. completely delightful, suitable for cynics and romantics alike. suspension of disbelief optional. "one of the most laconic, tightly-plotted tales of mythical morality you'll ever read, an anti-establishment satire disguised as a love story, more of a scary tale than a fairy tale" uncut"there's nothing fluffy about the princess bride. the rocket-powered narrative tricks you without being merely tricksy, and is both modern and timeless" neon"a funny thriller for readers who are about ten years of age or wish they were ... readers of a nervous disposition should be prepared to skim rapidly over the zoo of death episode or stick to fiction meant for grown-ups" spectator10/10 completely delightful, suitable for cynics and romantics alike.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
3 positive reader review(s) for the princess bride







the princess bride reader reviews

bong-a-bong-ung from scotland
good, very good.
9/10 (2017-11-06)







nate from united states
the princess bride is a very adventurous book that keeps you turning pages long after you planned to stop. there is plenty of adventure and danger. you never know what is going to happen next. on top of all that is kept interesting by the humor sewn throughout the whole thing. it was a very interesting and exciting book to read. i had only ever seen the movie until reading the book and the book has a lot more detail that i loved having.
9/10 (2017-05-06)







nytrydr from australia
"this is still my favourite book of all time, and i wish more than ever that i had written it" writes goldman in his anniversary introduction. i feel just the same. it is sweet, cynical, lovely, terrible, serious, tongue in cheek and above all, beautiful.
10/10 (2015-07-25)









9.4/10 from 4 reviews

all william goldman reviews

the princess bride 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




kushiel's dart by jacqueline carey
(kushiel's legacy: book 1)





“when love cast me out, it was cruelty who took pity on me.”born into a life of mysterious circumstances, phedre no delaunay’s scarlet mote in her left eye has left her marked. sold into the servitude of anafiel delaunay, phedre learns what it means to be an adapt of the night court. set in the world of deadly beauty, where ones beauty surpasses all imagination and expectations, the d’angeline features are almost as swift in their beauty as an assassin is with his deadly knife. marked by kushiel himself, phedre must undertake a journey that is filled with self-discovery and self-indulgence, for she is only kushiel’s born.the world of deadly poets, deadly courtiers and heroic traitors, phedre must learn to control her desires to find the truth that surrounds her birth.an epic journey awaits the young d’angeline with the scarlet mote in her left eye. the tales of the old are dead; the tales of a new birth begin.8/10 the tales of the old are dead; the tales of a new birth begin.


buy on amazon

review by snjezana bobic
3 positive reader review(s) for kushiel's dart







kushiel's dart reader reviews

lauren from united states
i was entranced by jacqueline carey's writing. from the first chapter, it felt like i was reading something forbidden. with a society reminiscent of the french rococo lifestyle, but the fantasy of an alterative religious history that shapes the main foundation of this book (and series). full of highly crafted characters you have to read in the appendix. carey's vision of the world was enough to hold me captive, even when the book's protagonist turned into a courtesan assassin. phedrè initially a child orphan, slave to society, learns that she is different. she does not understand why she is shunned and ignored. when her life changes, we follow the education she attains in court intrigues. then, the book evolves into erotic machinations and the floor drops out from under you. everything about the differences she faced in adolescence now make sense and life gets more complicated. it gets dark, on so many different levels, that we just hope she survives society's worst events toward women and the friends that keep her sane. royal intrigue, tragedy, kidnapping, romance, high fantasy epic. all wrapped up in neat little package or three... truly, one of my top 5 fantasy books series writers where patrick rothfuss and brandon sanderson are.
10/10 (2017-05-14)







james from bangor
very nearly perfect. provided you can stomach some of the darker moments, these books will not disappoint. they do have a tendency to drag a little in the second act, but carey more than makes up for it with her immaculate prose and exquisite descriptive powers.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







laura from essex
i stumbled across this and carey's subsequent namaah series quite by accident, but i'm so glad i did. carey's tale of betrayal, destiny, intrigue, mysterious and ferocious magics and, most important of all, love, is one of the most well-written and thoroughly enjoyable series i have ever have the pleasure of reading. a compelling narrative and poetic writing style made the complex and interwoven plot easy to read, introducing well-rounded, flaw bitten characters to life. phedre's character is unlike any protagonist i have ever experienced before, as through the mysteries and intrigue of the high european court in which she is thrust, her most violent battle is against herself, and unlike many 'strong' female characters, phedre is not without vulnerability.
although you are gifted with 6 books in the kushiel series, you are left craving more, turning then to the namaah series, which is like a chocolatey dessert to the hearty meal of kushiel. a definite 10 out of 10! recommended to lovers of historical fantasy, romance, crime and intrigue and great writing.
10/10 (2012-03-01)









9.3/10 from 4 reviews

all jacqueline carey reviews

kushiel's legacy (kushiel's legacy)
kushiel's dart (kushiel's legacy: book 1)
kushiel's chosen (kushiel's legacy: book 2)
kushiel's avatar (kushiel's legacy: book 3)
treason’s heir (treason�s heir)
kushiel's scion (treason�s heir: book 1)
kushiel's justice (treason�s heir: book 2)
kushiel's mercy (treason's heir: book 3)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the night circus by erin morgenstern






the circus arrives without warning. no announcements precede it. it is simply there, when yesterday it was not.within the black-and-white striped canvas tents is an utterly unique experience full of breath-taking amazements. it is called le cirque des rêves, and it is only open at night.but behind the scenes, a fierce competition is underway - a duel between two young magicians, celia and marco, who have been trained since childhood expressly for this purpose by their mercurial instructors. unbeknownst to them, this is a game in which only one can be left standing, and the circus is but the stage for a remarkable battle of imagination and will. despite themselves, however, celia and marco tumble headfirst into love - a deep, magical love that makes the lights flicker and the room grow warm whenever they so much as brush hands.true love or not, the game must play out, and the fates of everyone involved, from the cast of extraordinary circus per­formers to the patrons, hang in the balance, suspended as precariously as the daring acrobats overhead.you have to ask yourself… wouldn’t it be great to believe in magic?i found this book extraordinary, with so much thought put into not only the story - which unfolds like a carefully constructed maze - but also into the presentation of the hardback edition, which fits perfectly within the spectacle of the story.when reading the book i noticed that it often jumped back and forth between the years, from the time before the circus was even so much as an idea in the characters' heads to a time when the circus was an established sensation. this was at first be disconcerting and i found that i really had to pay close attention. the story itself centres around two characters, celia and marco, who as children are bound to a competition whose rules they are not told, nor are the consequences of made clear. the people that have thrust them into this competition are two highly skilled magic users, one of whom is celia’s father hector bowen - who has decided his daughter is the ultimate competitor - and a man only known as mr a. h.. they both have wildly different approaches to teaching magic to their respective students.around celia and marco we are given a cast of people who come into their lives and are changed by knowing them. these include frederick thiessen, who starts off as a maker of exquisite clocks before becoming more entwined with the night circus and its inhabitants. we never know how many people work and live within the circus or realise the extent of the magic that guides them.for a debut novelist i believe erin morgenstern has made a very good first impression. the night circus is a strong story which has the tendency to drift into the unbelievable but when is it not nice to suspend disbelief and and fall into a story.michelle herbert, 9/10after i finish a book, but before writing my review, i give the strands of the web a quick tug and see what falls out, since there's no better way i've found to martial my own thoughts than having a glance at what others have said. with any book, the variety of opinions, and the sophistication of how those opinions are expressed can vary a great deal, as can the extent that i agree with them.these days when looking at reviews, the norm seems to be a large number of unreservedly positive reviews balanced by a small number of viciously negative ones. however, the sheer variety of opinions on the night circus was a surprise in itself.what was even more surprising, is that unlike with most books, i could actually understand where a lot of the opinions; both good and bad, were coming from, since looked at one way, the night circus is a thinly plotted, shallowly researched historical fantasy about superficially beautiful people enacting a cliché ridden romance. looked at another way, the night circus is a gorgeously poetic and richly detailed fairy tale, in which magic is real, wonders and mysteries abound, and love actually does conquer all.down the centuries, the two magicians have been playing the game. the illusionist hector bowen; also known as prospero the enchanter, and his mysterious rival, the man in the grey suit who just calls himself a. h. have each chosen an apprentice to represent them, grooming the apprentices to participate in a duel of magic to prove which of the mentors' philosophies and teaching styles is superior.therefore when in 1873, hector bowen's five year old illegitimate daughter celia walks into his dressing room, it is her enormous magical potential that he focuses on, seeing her as an excellent candidate for the next game.after meeting celia, a.h, realises he also needs an apprentice, so acquires an orphan boy and begins teaching him magic. the boy initially has no name, but chooses the name marco allister, and grows up to be a formidable magician in his own right.meanwhile theatrical impresario chandresh christophe lefevre has a bold new idea. a travelling circus which will tour around the world, a place of magic and marvels, where a host of black and white tents contain acts that will boggle the imagination, acrobats who defy physics, a contortionist who can fold herself into a small glass box, and celia, an illusionist who needs no wires or clockwork or items up her sleeves to perform her tricks.with marco as chandrish's assistant, the stage is set. a duel of monumental power and complexity begins, with marco and celia manipulating the circus to create ever more fantastical attractions, wooden carousels with animals that move and breathe, a garden made entirely of ice, or a labyrinth of scintillating clouds.as the two magicians become aware of each other's work however, rather than acting as rivals they begin to collaborate. collaboration leads to familiarity, familiarity leads to recognition, and after a fated meeting with enchanted umbrellas outside a café in london, their feelings ignite into love. yet, the game can only have one victor and one outcome, and all the magic in the world might not be enough to save marco, celia, or the circus itself.the first thing which almost all reviews will say about the night circus, is that the writing style is simply gorgeous! from the first sentence, written in an unusual second person, morgenstern literally ushers you directly into the circus and lets you experience it for yourself, picking out so many little details, yet presenting all with a compelling rhythm and mastery of visual art which is far closer to poetry than prose. indeed, like writers such as china mieville, mervin peake or angela carter (with whom she's often compared), morgenstern has an absolute gift for putting her reader directly in a specific place, so that you feel you've not just read about the circus, but visited it. the only complaints i have seen levelled at morgenstern's writing style have been from those who find it a little too wordy, and it is true that if you don't like the idea of all twelve colours the circus bonfire turns being mentioned, this probably isn't the book for you. however, for anyone who loves language, especially language used to evoke visions of mystery and wonder, the writing style is nothing short of exquisite.one rather odd aspect to the description which unsettled some readers, is the way that morgenstern shuttles around in time, starting with a visit to the circus, then going back to show the circus's creation, from the glittering parties where the idea is discussed, to the machinations of the two magicians whose rivalry is at the heart of its creation. this gives the book's progression an oddly morphean quality which fits precisely with the mood and style here, this is after all le cirque des rêves, the circus of dreams. unfortunately, this is a minor problem for the book’s progression and the pacing of events, since it means a good half of the narrative is made up of flashbacks; albeit fantastically described flashbacks, which simply set up the book’s central location and premise rather than advancing the plot. indeed, there is a contradiction in the fact that whilst we see very little that is actually new happen, this is because morgenstern is so busy showing us new tents full of marvels or acts of magic.unfortunately, tension is an issue throughout the entire book, since even though the theme of the book is a contest, neither rules, nor judging nor any sort of comparative duelling come into play at all, and despite a few hints from morgenstern that there is more to magic than it seems, things seemed remarkably easy going for much of the time. this made reading the night circus a rather odd experience, since rarely if ever did i feel any concern for the characters that compelled me to pick the book up or keep reading, but once i started reading and simply sat back and let the descriptions of the magic and colour and vibrancy of the world wash over me, i didn't exactly feel bored either.the lack of tension doesn't just come from the pace of events being rather slow, but also from the lack of consequences. morgenstern's magic seems to have few rules or strictures. indeed, to say that marco in particular apparently uses books, runes and other magical paraphernalia, all of the magic feels remarkably easy. morgenstern hinted several times that there would be a cost, that there would be danger, and that matters weren't quite as easy as they seemed, however such costs almost never arose. in fairness, there were a few moments when unpleasant things did happen, however firstly all of those concerned the two elder magicians, and thus were heavily confined to only one plotline, and secondly, anything nasty was rather too quickly swept aside, indeed following the death of one rather beloved character, celia moved on so swiftly she almost appeared callous.this lack of tension also affected the book's background. other than gorgeous ball gowns, finely made dinner suits and beautifully gaslit parties, the victorian age outside the circus felt more like a stage set than anything else, with speech and even attitudes that were decidedly modern. nobody for example ever objects to women taking part in the running of the circus, nor do we ever hear about anyone too poor to attend, or any performers from the circus risking starvation if they can't perform. neither do we hear anything of the cooks, porters, backstage crew and other support people who do the unglamorous but necessary work of keeping the circus actually running. indeed, even for a modern setting around any sort of performance art, the amiability of the circus performers and fans would be a little odd to say the least. this particularly bothered me with the rêvers, a circus fan club spreading across europe and america, in which everyone is quite content to visit the circus when it appears, and nobody is ever mentioned as unable to go due to poverty, illness, or heck even just life circumstances. if i were being cynical i might note that a world where ever beautiful artists and performers have infinite opportunity to perform their art, are eternally admired by peacefully pleasant and uncritical fans, and supported by support staff so magical that we never even see them goes beyond dreamlike, and into the realms of wish fulfilment fantasy. where however this sort of shallowness and lack of thought would be a major problem for most authors, morgenstern's style is just so good you end up completely razzle dazzled, and for the most part, don't worry about how easy everything is.with character too, morgenstern is most often concerned with appearance and artistic ability rather than depth and reality, with most characters being brought down to their talents or graceful presentation, indeed this is likely why we see rather more of celia than marco, since she is the stage illusionist, whilst marco works from behind the scenes. chandresh is theatrical, in all senses of the word, herr thiessenn, the clockmaker who builds the wonderfully described timepiece at the circus gates is memorable more for his love of the circus and his fantastic clockwork creations than for his personality, whilst we were literally told the two scottish sisters tara and lainie burgess were notable primarily for their good taste and loveliness. yet, for the most part all of this doesn't matter as much, since having characters be just as they appear is hardly a problem when they appear so magnificently, quite apart from the fact that morgenstern is one of the few writers i know who can actually make you empathise with a character’s sense of wonder at a thing the author has created, without making the characters appear too obviously the author's cheerleaders, though it would have been nice if those few characters who did have backstory to be explored, such as the coolly mysterious contortionist tsukiko, had a little personality before this backstory came into play.some of her characters do however have a little more to them. one notable section featured bailey, a young boy with a domineering sister who develops a love for the circus and a friendship with poppet and widget, the precognitive twins born on the circus' opening night, indeed in baily's perspective, morgenstern came close to actually portraying a contrast between the magic of the circus and the far less pleasant nature of everyday life, albeit she wasn't quite prepared to depict too much of the latter, and concentrated very much on the former.unfortunately, with her lack of tension, only the two mentor magicians actually provide even a hint of malevolence, and even they seem mostly impotent for a good part of the book. this was a particular issue with isabell, the fortune teller whom marco meets as a lonely young man, who remained so much the mystical fortune teller and later, happy friend of all, i was never entirely sure whether she was a rival for marco's affections, or whether she passively agreed marco and celia should be together, or whether indeed marco had feelings for her at all.marco and celia's love affair too, is primarily surface based, with lots of kittens, rose petals and magic, albeit morgenstern does also include a rather decorous scene of lovemaking into the bargain. on the one hand the speed this love develops, and the ease that marco and celia slip into it (complete with japanese clichés about umbrellas), really doesn't up the stakes at all. on the other hand, a man who starts singing "if ever i would leave you" in an enthusiastic operatic tenor, whilst walking down the street carrying a bunch of roses for his wife is hardly in a position to criticise others for enjoying romantic gestures or being a bit too fervent about their feelings, and once again, morgenstern's descriptive style comes to the rescue of her lack of emotional subtlety or characterisation.unfortunately, the book’s final climax was a bit of a fizzle, indeed whilst i enjoyed the discussion of the value of stories and the final position of the night circus, the fact that so many events, including the threatened explosive end to the contest finished with such ease, made the conclusion unsatisfying, at least from a dramatic point of view. not that necessarily i wanted the book to have a tragic ending, but after all the hints about how dire the contest could be, the ease of the solution was quite anticlimactic.all in all the night circus is one of the most unique books i've read. it resembles nothing less than a ballet, with an intensively visual style of art, a range of attractions, and a location which is as real as anything talked about in print can be. unfortunately, a book is not a ballet, and where it would be crass when seeing the nutcracker to wonder whether the cook who made clara's sweets was fairly paid, or wonder whether prince siegfried of swan lake was a constitutional monarch, at the same time, for an eleven hour novel, even one as amazingly written as this, i can't help asking questions about what is actually going on backstage, and how the goings on stage affect the actors.particularly for me, the major problem was the question of cost, since despite a few hints and a literal magical contest, morgenstern's work is very much a fantasy in the sense that actions do not have consequences and magic covers all.in fairness, this did not bother my lady half as much as it bothers me, and judging by the many positive reviews the book has got, it doesn't bother others either. still, for myself, beautiful and wondrous and amazing though morgenstern's poetry is, the nuts and bolts of plot construction, character and above all, a world with actual consequences mean that i wasn't quite as enchanted as i might have been, which is why i consider the book as merely good, rather than exceptional.then again, there is no denying the book is good, and so i'd still highly recommend a visit to the night circus, after all, nothing here will hurt you, and many things will amaze and enchant you.dark, 8.4/10: the marmite circus9/10 i found this book extraordinary.


buy on amazon

reviews by michelle herbert and dark
1 positive reader review(s) for the night circus








the night circus reader reviews

nhu tran from vietnam
considering a debut novel, this is an brilliant piece of work. the story spins around the life of an exceptionally talented magician. she was set up by a her father and a mysterious man in a “game“, which neither she nor her opponent - an equally talented illusionist -could get to know the “true” rule. in the beginning, the night circus was established primarily for their competition. it has soon become a wonder, a desire, a peculiar memory for the children and even the so-called adult ‘dreamers’. in the end, for certain reasons, their winning or losing can decide the future if circus. they need to figure out the true rule of the exhausting game, how to end it and to find a saviour for their beloved circus, the first thing i like is the storytelling, which is enchanting so as not to let you put the book down easily. there are two story lines running at different time points then converging perfectly naturally. the second thing is the character building, especially the development of the protagonists from childhood to adulthood and the villainy of those who are too complacent about their intellectual/magical prowess. the thing i absolutely adore is the “night circus” - full of recreational activities, spectacular performances and, most impressively, exquisite craftwork. especially, the creation of the midnight pendulum clock is way beyond my imagination (i would spend a fortune to have that clock honestly). there is not much twist and turn to my liking, however. and the protagonists roles were a bit “diluted” towards the end. some points of the plot is quite conventional. overall, it’s worth giving it a try. the theme is classic magic but it has its very own colour.
8/10 (2020-04-14)









8.4/10 from 2 reviews

all erin morgenstern reviews

the night circus 
the starless sea 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




dune by frank herbert






to borrow a line from a film adaptation of this novel: “when politics and religion ride in the same cart, the whirlwind follows.” frank herbert’s dune is easily one of the most layered works of fiction produced during the twentieth century. from examining byzantine political gambits to the human penchant for hero worship, herbert using a far-flung future setting to examine the best and worst aspects of human nature. dune is easily one of the primary masterpieces of science fiction despite being a dense, somewhat difficult book for the average reader.there are two major themes that herbert explores through the novel: ecology and religion. by utilizing the same setting for both themes he kept an already lengthy novel from becoming a weighty tome. it is not surprising that the author makes arrakis (the desert planet that serves as the main setting) a living, breathing organism, complete with the simple creatures such as desert mice to the terrifying but awe-inspiring depictions of the great worms. herbert uses the fremen, a tribal, bedouin-style society to illustrate the juxtaposition between humans’ desire to control their environment for their own benefit and the need to preserve the environment that maintains one’s culture. and it is this anachronistic culture of the fremen which has cultivated its own messiah mythos. there can be little doubt that the author was fully aware of the parallels between the fremen and the judeo/christian/islamic (particularly islamic) desert tribes that fashioned the three dominant religions of our world.but religion is used as a warning, in particular a warning against humans placing too much temporal power into the hands of a charismatic, religious leader. the main character of paul atreides, known as muad’dib (the desert mouse), fits the mold of the classic hero’s journey of a character who falls from grace, experiences tribulation, and returns to conquer his enemies. the difference here (and this is a facet that only the sci-fi channel’s version of dune managed to capture) is that paul may not be the messiah figure but simply a man playing a role necessary for his own survival. there is little doubt left in the novel about the metaphysical abilities (more on that in a moment) paul possesses. what is left ambiguous by herbert (in a masterful stroke of storytelling) is if paul really is this god-like figure of prophecy. the angst the character feels over taking on a mantle that leads to incalculable bloodshed and carnage is palpable and one feels for the character even as one roots for him to accomplish his goals which lead to such conflagration.the other characters are quite capable in their own right but some of them do not receive as much development as the main character. the closest character who receives a significant arc is jessica, paul’s mother, a member of a secretive female order that spent generations trying to produce someone with paul’s metasensory abilities. in the beginning, jessica is quite clearly attached to her son but also a haughty aristocratic lady, as befits the concubine of a duke. the later chapters where she begins to fear the power her son claims is informative of the cost such a messianic rise engenders. this is not to say that all the characters receive such treatment. the emperor shaddam is not really given much to do, much like the character of duke leto atreides, paul’s father. leto’s scenes are absolutely essential to the story and he is a deftly created portrait of what the strain of diabolical politics can do to person. the most insidious character, however, is the baron harkonnen, a machiavellian schemer with a streak of viciousness and a hunger for power as large as the galaxy. herbert’s treatment of his villain is not subtle but it is not a caricature either.herbert’s choices to disobey certain strictures of the science fiction genre are interesting. in defiance of the standard of science fiction (mostly dealing with technological marvels that have improved life for humans), herbert instead focuses on the acceleration of human genetics and the mental and physical potential of humans. from the characters such as thufir hawat and piter de fries, who are mentats (humans trained to reach the processing power of supercomputers) to the bene gesserit sisterhood (the female order mentioned before who have such control over their bodies they can isolate individual muscle groups as well as counteract deadly poisons introduced into their bodies), humans are biologically advanced far ahead of the space ships and laser guns found in other such stories. in a way, herbert took the neo-feudal setting and magical abilities of fantasy settings and simply advanced them thousands of years into the future, giving them proper biological and technological foundations for explanation.the only complaint that i have heard from others that i’ve recommended this book to is that it is dense and herbert is not easy to read. this is true, even more so in the later books of this series. herbert’s jargon is available at the end of the book in an appendix but going through the book with no understanding of the terminology used can be a bit daunting for first-time readers. once one gets past the author’s choice of terms, though, they find a rich and imaginative world ripe for exploration.if you are a fan of epic fantasy or large-scale science fiction (and are not afraid to examine weighty issues such as religion and politics), then i cannot strongly recommend dune enough. anyone who considers themselves a fan of this genre must read it at some point in their lives.nicholas king 9.2/10dune. arrakis. desert planet.just four words with enough weight to seize control of my imagination. this is a book written nearly 20 years before i was born, yet still strong enough to grip and consume me today. an incredible book in so many ways, forever relevant for transcendent reasons.i don't think i can review this in my typical manner. the setting, plot, and characters should just be experienced. suffice to say they are all fantastic, and have managed to grip readers for 50 years. the writing too is excellent and kept my interest page-to-page far better than (for example) lord of the rings, even though i prefer fantasy to science fiction as a general rule.perhaps the right question to ask is this: why is dune the greatest selling sci fi book of all time? first, it is a complex book with many layers. yes, dune is a book about machiavellian politics. yes, it is a book about a single resource turning the wheels of humanity, which for us might be oil, but for our ancestors might have been salt or iron, gold or silk, and who knows what it might be tomorrow. it is a book about environmentalism, ecology, technology, and religion, too.but underneath it all is human truth - fundamental, inescapable, glorious and tragic, perhaps rooted in our genetic code. we call it 'the hero's journey', but watch it here as its evil twin, 'hero worship'. in dune we are witness to the creation of muad'dib. we see it coming, just as paul atreides does, but like him we feel powerless to stop it. to understand muad'dib is simultaneously to understand savior and tyrant, prophet and opportunist, supporter and slave. the critics of the book's niggling faults and historical context often miss the point entirely, much like those who say that 'all fiction is political', when in truth the great masters write philosophy and the essence of 'trope': they write archetype. the hero's journey and hero worship are not political, nor religious, though both can be abused by politicians and priests. ideologies rise and fall, they are transitory, temperamental and cultural. heroes, too, change from gilgamesh to achilles, horus to odin, jesus christ to superman. but underneath is something deeper. mr. herbert understood this. he presents it here in dune with a complex backdrop worthy of respect all on its own. he innovates and entertains while he plumbs the depths of human truth. dune should be required reading for any fiction writer, and certainly a better study of writing than the vast majority of works i read in university. in the end i can only recommend the book, and thank the great man for the experience.richard nell 9.6/109/10 anyone who considers themselves a fan of this genre must read it at some point in their lives.


buy on amazon

reviews by nicholas king and richard nell
6 positive reader review(s) for dune







dune reader reviews

john from uk
i read it in the early 70s as a teen. i read asimov and heinlein but dune stuck in my mind chapter by chapter. my son read it in his teens and surpassed my passion of its relations to the present. i'm not here to review, but suggest another author i found intriguing, james hogan's inherit the stars.
10/10 (2021-11-22)







elena ioana from romania
dune is one of the best books i ever read so far. and i don t think someone could call this book just "good". for me, frank herbert is that author who can make masterpierces in every moment of his live. i dont have words to describe this book, but if u didn t read it, please do, you will not lose time.
9/10 (2020-02-10)







luiz from united states
an epic in the original sense of the word with a full heros arc. i've read this book many times, in particular for a love of the universe and the allegory, but the one weakness is that herbert's voicing of characters is immature in the first book, which like a kevin smith movie, gives the sense of all the characters having a similar voice. i really have enjoyed this book over the years, even if characters at times sound snotty and distant. index and map books, such as this one, are hard for folks who aren't used to indexes and maps but ultimately assist in creating a very complex universe with some brevity. it's a great book, but better if you're already reading dense stuff: you'll get less turned off by herbert's tone.
9/10 (2019-09-16)







anon from uk
i tried to listen to the unabridged audio book of 'dune'. i hauled myself to the 17th. disc of 18 discs, until i could stand it no longer : every ponderous character is cut out of firm heroic cardboard - unless they are a morbidly fat villain wobbling about on fat suspensors. and gloating over their sex lives. anyone who makes a mistake immediately begs to be executed - 'oh, lord , rend my breast with your pointy thing ! i implore you, that i might die in the glow of my nobility. oh ... go on ..please - let me die bravely. ...go on.' nobody has a cup of tea - they all 'quaff' ale, the tea , incidentally is re-named g'nal al voltroon , and the tea cup is a vreeth. the teaspoon a wazzoon. conversation between characters is difficult because each one must ascend to a lofty crag to declaim in deathless prose, their hand to their brow, while the wind lifts their locks in a suitably impressive manner. there isn't one sympathetic character in the whole book : they're all obsessed by following their colossal destinies , or in groveling before their masters and mistresses. i said that the book was unabridged -by the tenth disc i was wishing it was abridged - by the eleventh i was wishing it had been filleted - by the seventeenth i wanted to impale myself on the blade of my znobble. in contrast, the fantasy novel 'the wise man's fear' by patrick rothfuss, that i'm now reading , is full of believable figures, both hero and villain that i can actually care about. thanks. in slagging off 'dune' i have dared criticise an iconic book: 'i have erred - i beg you to slay me and let my funeral barque sail for the falls of bnaah. but not until a suitably flaming, blood red sunset arises to give me bit of a send off.
10/10 (2018-11-27)







robert from canada
i read dune as a recommendation from a friend. at first i found it slow, but in the end, it turned out to be an epic plot incomparable to any other i have ever read. i am a huge fan of fantasy and sci-fi books, and despite that, no other book i have ever read come close to being as good as dune. i would recommend this book to literally anyone.
10/10 (2018-11-21)







herb from usa
i first read dune when it was a serial in analog back in the 60s.i found it exciting and masterful.i have not read a science-fiction book that is better. i strongly agree with nicolas king's review, especially his last sentence: "anyone who considers themselves a fan of this genre must read it at some point in their lives."
10/10 (2018-06-18)







raphael from france
a timeless and elaborate universe, a dense story and a unforgettable setting with the planet dune... and a myriad of reflections on religion, culture, power, family... and control. this is the global theme of the novel : control. controlling the body and the mind, controlling others and oneself, a hostile environment, one's own passions and fears... this novel truly is essential and unsurpassable.
10/10 (2014-07-03)









9.7/10 from 8 reviews

all frank herbert reviews

dune 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




sailing to sarantium by guy gavriel kay
(the sarantine mosaic #1)





forming the first part of guy gavriel kay’s duology the sarantine mosaic and inspired by ancient byzantium, sailing to sarantium tells a magnificent, sweeping story of empire, conspiracies and journeys, both physical and spiritual. first published in 1998 it was followed by lord of emperors in 2000.rumoured to be responsible for the ascension of the previous emperor, his uncle, amid fire and blood, valerius the trakesian has himself now risen to the golden throne of the vast empire ruled by the fabled city, sarantium.valerius has a vision to match his ambition: a glittering dome that will proclaim his magnificence down through the ages. and so, in a ruined western city on the far distant edge of civilization, a not-so-humble artisan receives a call that will change his life forever.crispin is a mosaicist, a layer of bright tiles. still grieving for the family he lost to the plague, he lives only for his arcane craft, and cares little for ambition, less for money, and for intrigue not at all. but an imperial summons to the most magnificent city in the world is a difficult call to resist.in this world still half-wild and tangled with magic, no journey is simple; and a journey to sarantium means a walk into destiny. bearing with him a deadly secret, and a queen's seductive promise; guarded only by his own wits and a bird soul talisman from an alchemist's treasury, crispin sets out for the fabled city from which none return unaltered.as previously mentioned, kay's fictional sarantium is inspired both by 6th century byzantium and also by the portrayal of it within of the poems of w. b. yeats.i have long enjoyed guy gavriel kay's work and i would place sailing to sarantium up there with tigana and under heaven as the stories i have enjoyed the most, although of course i have enjoyed them all. it is simply beautifully written and from the very beginning i was completely invested in the story, the world and the characters. the author's love for words, and for telling stories, shines from every page - there is a precision, care and subtlety to each and every sentence.despite being the first book in a two book series the author does not find it necessary to utilise a cliff-hanger, or to leave many loose-ends, to tempt the reader into purchasing book two. sailing to sarantium can easily be treated as a stand-alone novel, such is the feeling of satisfaction upon completion as the final page turns. you could just leave the story there, should you be so inclined, but i'd be surprised if anyone did not wish to discover what further awaits crispin in fabled sarantium.if you want to read one of the very best examples of alternate history merged with fantasy then this is the book for you. i cannot recommend sailing to sarantium highly enough.floresiensis, 9.5/10guy gavriel kay is among my favourite authors. he writes prose that is both beautiful and evocative, drawing you into his worlds and the lives of his characters in a way few others are able to achieve. sailing to sarantium has often been mentioned to me as among kay’s finest work. for me, the pinnacle of kay’s work remains tigana, with a close second being the lions of al-rassan. that being the case, sarantium is still a fine example of kay’s imaginative storytelling and has much to recommend it.as always, kay excels in crafting believable characters that grip you and keep you reading. crispin is a skilled mosaicist who journeys - there is no actual sailing involved in the novel; the phrase “sailing to sarantium” is used throughout the book for someone taking a journey of discovery or having a liminal sort of experience - to sarantium in order to construct the mosaic on the dome of emperor valerius ii’s new cathedral to jad. the early part of the novel reads a bit like a travelogue as crispin encounters new people, places, and traditions during his journey to sarantium itself. the sense of discovery really shines during this part of the book, and i think kay does a wonderful job, particularly in terms of fleshing out crispin’s character but also in introducing us to kasia, a slave girl who is marked for a pagan sacrifice. once crispin meets up with carullus, a tribune in the imperial army, we get to see some incredibly fun banter. i’m not sure i’ve seen the sort of banter kay crafts in any of his other novels that i’ve read, and so this was really a treat. the conversations between carullus and crispin provide much needed levity once the plot moves to sarantium, as crispin ends up embroiled in a variety of plots and counterplots. these are only a few of a whole cast of characters who each feel real and complex. the characters aren’t the only thing that is complex about this novel. as always, there is a depth and beauty to the world kay has crafted here that is truly astonishing. there are also a few fun moments dealing with chariot races between the blues and the greens that have an almost slice-of-life feel to them and just make sarantium come alive and feel like it’s much more than a simple setting for a book.normally, at this point, i’d share some things that didn’t work as well for me in this novel. i’m not sure there is anything that is particularly weak, or that didn’t connect with me. rather, because this is the first book in a duology, it lacked a solid ending. this is all the more noticeable since kay’s endings normally leave me thinking and processing, wrestling with bittersweet elements, and immensely satisfied. the ending to sarantium didn’t feel like that at all. there was no element of satisfaction in the ending, which is no doubt delayed until the ending of the sequel. instead, it feels more like a pause. while some threads are tied up, the novel feels unfinished - not in quality - but in terms of the story. it’s quite possible that kay’s excellence in other novels simply make this one suffer in comparison.i look forward to reading the second book in the sarantine mosaic, and i’m hopeful that it will provide closure to the story and satisfaction for the reader in a way that the ending of sailing to sarantium just didn’t. even so, this is a book that introduces us to some wonderful characters and deserves to be read for that reason alone.calvin park, 8/109/10 one of the very best examples of alternate history merged with fantasy.


buy on amazon

reviews by calvin park and floresiensis








sailing to sarantium reader reviews



8.8/10 from 1 reviews

all guy gavriel kay reviews

tigana 
the lions of al-rassan 
the fionavar tapestry 
under heaven 
a brightness long ago 
the summer tree (the fionavar tapestry: book 1)
the wandering fire (the fionavar tapestry: book 2)
the darkest road (the fionavar tapestry: book 3)
sailing to sarantium (the sarantine mosaic #1)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




city of stairs by robert jackson bennett
(the divine cities: book 1)





shara and her assistant sigurd have arrived in the continental city of belikov in search of dr. efrem pangyui's killers, but are about to discover so much more. belikov is a city of twisted realities and things are definitely not what they seem. shara and her associates must find the killers and stop their extremist plot before it is too late.city of stairs had a very slow start, and it took a while for me to become enveloped in the story. bennett's writing style caught me off-guard but in a way i feel that this unique narration added to the story, as the city of belikov is just as disconcerting. the writing and the setting are unsettling at first, but i soon became accustomed to what was previously so alien.shara is not a typical fantasy heroine – she is not particularly comely, and while she is a leading member of her field, she is not exactly celebrated for it and at one point, her aunt (and her boss) corrects her by saying that shara is the agent most obsessed with the divinities and the continent as opposed to the leading expert.the world-building that went into this book was amazing. it was more of a bottom-top approach but there was still a sufficient amount of background information. i found the way that bennett approached religion to be extremely interesting and i loved the way that the reader was kept in the dark about the history of belikov and the divinities - just as the people of the continent were.city of stairs definitely makes my list of favourite fantasy novels, and i would definitely read a sequel, as well as more of bennett's work. excellent and i wouldn't hesitate to recommend it.9/10 makes my list of favourite fantasy novels.


buy on amazon

review by kat berwick








city of stairs reader reviews



9.2/10 from 1 reviews

all robert jackson bennett reviews

foundryside (founders #1)
shorefall (founders #2)
the divine cities trilogy (the divine cities trilogy #1 - #3)
city of stairs (the divine cities: book 1)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the golem and the djinni by helene wecker






helene wecker’s the golem and the djinni was a book i enjoyed a great deal. her characters were fascinating, felt real and i enjoyed exploring their histories as the book progressed. i also found that the main setting and narrative evoked wonderful images of nineteenth century new york. but what i enjoyed most was the chance to experience the jewish and arab folklore that was fundamental to the book’s being.in the golem and the djinni the titular golem of the title is chava, a creature made of clay, brought to life by a disgraced rabbi. when her master dies at sea on the voyage from poland she is unmoored and adrift as the ship arrives in new york in 1899. the djinni is ahmad, a being of fire, born in the ancient syrian desert. trapped in an old copper flask by a bedouin wizard centuries ago, he is released accidentally by a tinsmith in a lower manhattan shop. the golem and the djinni is their story and it is a tale that will resonate strongly with immigrants the world over.i’m a stephen king fan and have been for decades. if there is one element in his writing i enjoy most it is probably be the way he introduces characters and then supplies a backstory that gives meaning to the narrative and shape to the character. this is something that wecker does extremely well and was just one of the many reasons i enjoyed this book. she writes elegantly and fluently and i also admired her ambition - many authors have written about a golem, many have written about a djinni, but none that i can think of have brought them both together in a story so seamlessly and to make it work so brilliantly is an achievement. there is great pleasure to be found in watching these two alien strangers develop their unlikely relationship.the golem and the djinni is first rate historical fantasy fiction which makes you care deeply about the characters and instils and eagerness and a need to find how it will all end. it is a wonderful debut novel that brings to life a 1899 new york every bit as atmospheric as the london conan doyle created for holmes. this is a book that consistently delights, a charming love story with pleasing emotional depth.9/10 a charming love story with pleasing emotional depth


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis








the golem and the djinni reader reviews



9.2/10 from 1 reviews

all helene wecker reviews

the golem and the djinni 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




dragonflight by anne mccaffrey
(the dragon rider's saga: book 1)





i remember very well the last time in my life i read an anne mccaffrey novel. in the end of my first term at university as an undergrad, i started a new mccaffrey i'd not read before and found that i was able to predict who would be the book's love interest just from their physical description. i'd read and enjoyed a great many mccaffrey novels as a teenager, but suddenly i found myself feeling that i'd outgrown them, indeed as i grew older and became a good bit more jaded, i started viewing them as overly fluffy and sentimental. perhaps because now my life contains a good bit more fluffitude and sentimentality, i have found mccaffrey increasingly on my mind of late, and myself referring to her surprisingly often in book related discussions with my lady. whether it is because (largely due to my lady), i am now at a point where i can appreciate a little mild fluffitude with a slight seasoning of sentimentality, or whether it is because i question my younger self’s judgement, or whether it is just because i do have a bit of a thing for dragons and to ignore such a landmark in dragon literature seems foolish, i decided not only to go back to mccaffrey, but to begin right at the very beginning her first novel and the start of the dragon riders saga, the original dragonflight published in 1968. though occurring on the distant future colony of pern, dragonflight does in many ways at this point feel rather more like a fantasy novel than a science fiction one, since despite it’s genetically engineered dragons and telepathic abilities that are psychic rather than magical, the semi medieval society with its hereditary aristocracy and proud tradition of dragon riders who serve as protectors and judges does seem to be closer to what you would find in a typical work of fantasy, indeed i wonder if mercedes lackey’s heralds of valdemar with their equine companions were influenced by mccaffrey. the story begins with lessa, who is a drudge (almost literally a slave), in her family’s ancestral hold of ruatha. her family were murdered ten years previously by the dictator fax, and lessa has been quietly working towards her revenge by using her telepathic abilities to subtly influence those around her. this scheme comes to a head when f’lar, a dragon rider from pern’s sole remaining weyr (as orders of dragon riders are called), arrives searching for a girl who might be able to both form a bond with the golden queen dragon about to hatch from its egg and take on the responsibility of becoming the next weyrwoman, a task f’lar takes especially seriously given that he suspects the thread, the parasitic alien life form the dragons were created to defend against might soon return. far from the fluffiness i feared, one of the first things about dragonflight that struck me was that the attitudes of the society depicted here seem far harder and more primitive than i remembered. though i suspect mccaffrey decided to tone things down later, and to attribute the earlier harshness to the presence of the tyrannical fax, at the same time the harshness does heavily increase the sense of danger and the alien quality of the world, after all lessa’s plan to depose fax feels far more audacious if we are in a world where she risks actual death if she is caught, likewise later conflicts between the lords and the weyr become much more serious in a world where we already know violence is close to the surface. what makes this harshness a little more effective and chilling (and slightly at odds with later books), is the casual way mccaffrey skates over such things as conquest by blood, the slavery of the drudges and apparently legalized concubinage as though they are fairly normal in this society, not to mention small nasty details such as f’lar noticing that fax’s wife is afraid of getting too physically close to him, or the fact that candidates attempting to form a bond with hatching dragons are frequently mauled in the process. one problem however with this use of medieval attitudes, is that in places it does create some slightly ambiguous turns of plot and character. f’lar for example is not only looking for a girl to form a bond with the new queen, but also to become a capable administrator. he frequently dismisses many of the women he sees as “lacking spirit” and is attracted to lessa by (of all things), her small delicate supposedly noble woman’s hands, which he is able to notice both despite the hard physical work she has been doing, and lessa’s use of her telepathic abilities to avoid being noticed. while it is understandable that the vengeful lessa would be somewhat obsessed with her being of ruathan nobility, for others, (especially f’lar who as a dragon rider seems predisposed to ignore hereditary nobility given that those chosen by the weyr can be of any station, the focus on noble blood seems rather odd and indeed makes the book feel something of a traditional princess and the pea type of fairy tale. this problem with not quite knowing where to stop medieval attitudes also seems to affect mccaffrey’s characters. f’lar is haughty, arrogant and frequently a little domineering, indeed he finally gets lessa to accept his offer to to become a dragon rider by taunting her for not living up to her bloodline. there are a good few reviews that criticise f’lar in particular, and mccaffrey in general for the way f'lar treats lessa, while he doesn’t actually hit her, he does man handle her several times throughout the book. i can say that the occasions when f'lar shakes lessa as a reprimand, even when she is about to do something dangerous, or when he forcibly shoves her into a chair to get her to sit down and stop talking at a public meeting are definitely less than pleasant, (though on the latter occasion since lessa was about to start a war perhaps he had a little justification). on the other hand i do not know how much of this was simply intended as more evidence of pern’s medieval attitude, since undoubtedly pern is not intended to be a society where both genders are equal, something which indeed lessa has to overcome and which is a major theme in later novels. then again, since mccaffrey was born in the 1920’s it is also possible that her own beliefs about what level of gender related physical force was acceptable were slightly off, indeed watching the 1959 film ben hur the other day i did note an occasion in which the main character similarly manhandles his love interest.my lady in fact has even accused mccaffrey on occasion of somewhat conforming to the tropes of fifties romance, particularly with f'lar. whatever the reason i can say this makes f'lar a little difficult to like at several points in the book. lessa as the other primary protagonist is unfortunately also less than pleasant on occasions, being head strong, proud, manipulative and frequently a little childish, indeed in some ways she is almost a typical princess. again, how much this was due to perhaps older traditions of writing romantic characters or how much due to pern supposedly having ingrained noble prejudices and sense of pride i do not know. nevertheless, just as there were points i found it difficult to like f'lar, i found similar problems with lessa, which is quite surprising given that her rags to riches story of revenge is one which would incline me to be sympathetic almost by default. this is typified in one section where lessa masterminds a scheme by which the dragon riders kidnap and terrorise the wives of several lords who are not paying their tithes to the weyr, a sequence which i believe was intended to be funny, but whose actual implications and impact upon the people involved is one mccaffrey plainly did not consider. this extortion is also a little problematic given that at this stage thread has not been seen on pern for four hundred years and it is therefore not so unreasonable of the lords to wonder why they should be paying taxes to a bunch of haughty dragon riders anyway, a perspective which mccaffrey utterly ignores. all that being said there are a number of surprisingly nice character moments in the book. these include lessa’s genuinely touching friendship with the watch wher, a stunted dragon like creature keeping watch at ruatha hold, not to mention the bond she does establish with her dragon, indeed for much of the book the dragons actually come off as nicer than the humans. fortunately, when the parasitic threads put in an appearance, everything moves into a higher gear. this is both because now the dragon riders actions have a context, and because suddenly  the questionable character depiction of f'lar and lessa falls off dramatically, indeed for all i was not always fond of lessa, the final sequence when she rises atop her golden queen dragon to fight thread is quite remarkable, as are some of the things she achieves when the situation gets desperate. as we move from a story of slightly petty bickering politics and tradition to one of cooperation against a mindless alien menace we also meet memorable and sympathetic characters who mccaffrey will take time to explore later, like the wise master harper robinton and the single minded smith fandarel. stylistically, mccaffrey’s prose are fairly unambitious, though i do admire the way that she picks out smaller details which make pern feel like a real place as opposed to simply a fantasy stage dressing. i was also quite pleased with how well she handled her books pacing since rarely did it feel that the work either dragged or moved too quickly which is a surprising achievement for a first novel (particularly one with so much political wrangling). unfortunately, since dragonflight is a first novel there are still one or two minor stylistic niggles. i did not like the fact that we rarely actually hear dragons speak so much as have their conversation described to us, or the way lessa’s unspecified jedi like mind powers seemed a little indefinite and rather nebulous; likely why mccaffrey largely dropped this aspect in later books, though it shows her competence as a writer that neither lessa’s powers nor those of her dragon make solving problems too easy. then again, the dragons themselves, although perhaps not as evident in this book as later in the series are wonderfully real, especially in the descriptions of their various personalities, the practical ways their riders take care of them and especially the discovery of their talents, and when eventually the thread itself does start falling the idea of a mindless, wriggling silver alien life form is profoundly and wonderfully nasty; small wonder it brings so many people together. dragonflight is in many ways a problematic book. questionable attitudes, the at times dislikeable characters and the slightly uneven details of world building and power. however there is a lot the book gets right, in the creation of its world, and (eventually), in the depiction of its characters.if you are a newcomer to mccaffrey’s pern series, you would likely be best starting elsewhere (perhaps with the far more mature dragonsdawn), however if you want to see how the saga began, and indeed see how a young writer converted two hugo winning novellas to form her first steps into a historical world of alien dragons, dragonflight still definitely has something to offer, for all there is no denying mccaffrey did refine both her craft and her dragons later on.6/10 nothing like voracious insatiable alien parasites for bringing people together


buy on amazon

review by dark








dragonflight reader reviews



6.1/10 from 1 reviews

all anne mccaffrey reviews

dragonflight (the dragon rider's saga: book 1)
dragonquest (the dragon rider's saga: book 2)
dragonsong (the dragon rider's saga: book 3)
dragonsinger (the dragon rider's saga: book 4)
the white dragon (the dragon rider's saga: book 6)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the bone clocks by david mitchell






the bone clocks follows the twists and turns of holly's life from a scarred adolescence in gravesend to old age on ireland's atlantic coast as europe's oil supply dries up - a life not so far out of the ordinary, yet punctuated by flashes of precognition, visits from people who emerge from thin air and brief lapses in the laws of reality. for holly sykes - daughter, sister, mother, guardian - is also an unwitting player in a murderous feud played out in the shadows and margins of our world, and may prove to be its decisive weapon.9/10 


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis








the bone clocks reader reviews



9/10 from 1 reviews

all david mitchell reviews

the bone clocks 
cloud atlas 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the hobbit by jrr tolkien






j.r.r. tolkien's the hobbit is one of the best known and best loved fantasy books. first published by george allen & unwin in 1937, the hobbit has been translated into over 50 different languages and sold well over 100 million copies.the hobbit was written by professor tolkien for the reading pleasure of his own children, of whom christopher became the editor of tolkien's posthumous work such as the silmarillion and the book of lost tales.this is a far more light-hearted tale than the lord of the rings and introduces to the world the unforgettable bilbo, gandalf and gollum. the hobbit is a book that can be enjoyed by children and adults alike and authors from j.k. rowling to david gemmell class it as an inspiration upon their own work.a book full of adventure, heroism, song and laughter, featuring landscapes that are quintessentially english - the shire the hobbits inhabit could easily be an england of yesteryear. but soon the shire is left behind and bilbo, our reluctant hero, encounters dwarves, elves, goblins, eagles and wizards as the party passes through rivendell, the misty mountains and mirkwood on their way to the lonely mountain, in order to take back treasure stolen by the great dragon smaug.one of the most appealing aspects of the hobbit is that we can all find our inner-hobbit; the part of us that wants nothing by an easy and comfortable life. but there is still something inside all of us that perks up at the thought of adventure and a journey into the unknown and i think this is why the hobbit is such a firm favourite and fondly remembered by all who read it.the mother of our particular hobbit - what is a hobbit? i suppose hobbits need some description nowadays, since they have become rare and shy of the big people, as they call us. they are (or were) a little people, about half our height, and smaller than the bearded dwarves. hobbits have no beards. there is little or no magic about them, except the ordinary everyday sort which helps them to disappear quietly and quickly when large stupid folk like you and me come blundering along, making a noise like elephants which they can hear a mile off. they are inclined to be fat in the stomach; they dress in bright colour's (chiefly green and yellow); wear no shoes, because their feet grow natural leather soles and thick brown hair like the stuff on their heads (which is curly); have long clever brown fingers, good-natured faces, and laugh deep fruity laughs (especially after dinner which they have twice a day when they can get it).from: the hobbit - chapter: an unexpected partyi would suggest reading the illustrated version if you have the choice, the artwork by alan lee* is so good that it manages to improve a story that is already fabulous.the hobbit is quite simply a must read, a real delight.--* alan lee is an english artist, he has studied celtic and norse myths and remains fascinated by mythology. he was inspired by the lord of the rings and as well as providing the artwork for the hobbit he also illustrated the centenary edition of the lord of the rings.10/10 the hobbit is fondly remembered by all who read it, a real delight.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
137 positive reader review(s) for the hobbit







the hobbit reader reviews

anita from india
this book is awsome!!!
10/10 (2021-06-02)







krste from croatia
while it lacks the sheer epicness of lord of the rings, the hobbit is definitely a much easier and better paced read. not only is it a perfect intro to middle earth, but its also a great and thrilling story itself and one of my personal favourites.
10/10 (2021-01-01)







the gladiator from aherad
this book really grabbed my attention and it conveys the message perfectly! i'll never forget first reading this book, only bested by chris colfer.
10/10 (2020-12-06)







undisclosed from us
this was such a good book! i'm an eleven-year-old from america and i read it shortly after watching the movie. definitely good for people who like fantasy.
10/10 (2020-11-22)







jacob from us
amazing book, hands down the best one i've ever read in my 18 years of life. excited to read the lord of the rings next.
10/10 (2020-08-17)







emma grantham from england 
this book is amazing. i don’t like reading and i read every single page and every single word all the way to the end.
10/10 (2020-07-27)







eoin from england
this book is fantastic🖕🏿🖕🏾🖕🏽🖕🏼🖕🏻🖕
10/10 (2020-07-09)







evie from england
i am young and will not say my age as anyway this is gooooooooooooooood the best
10/10 (2020-07-02)







georgia from ireland
it is a very good book. there are very good characters and it's a brilliant story. i am nine years old and i have read many books including the hobbit. it is by far one of my favourite books.
10/10 (2020-05-09)







victor  from italy 
one of the greatest books ever written.
10/10 (2020-02-03)







suzie from new zealand 
at first this book was dull and boring but it took me some time to appreciate the hobbit. once they reach smaug things start to get a lot more interesting. i do not regret reading this book at all! just try to hang in there at the first bits.
7/10 (2019-12-28)







mayank from india 
best book i have ever read !!!!!!
10/10 (2019-12-22)







joppe from belgium
the hobbit is a great book in the marvellous world of tolkien's best-recieved trilogy, it tends, however, to be a slow read due to the language used. professor tolkien has a passion for languages, real or not, and this tends to be shown in his work. this is however a minor flaw, as well as an advantage: sometimes passages feel too stretched while others are a masterful wordplay.
8/10 (2019-11-01)







chodra from bhutan
this book was really interesting and fascinating. i must say this is the best book that we have in our earth or world. thank you.
10/10 (2019-10-22)







andrei from sapin
so good!!!
10/10 (2019-05-15)







bob from bobland place of bobness
love it. read it more than once.
10/10 (2019-03-28)







misty from america
it's a great book i thought it was boring at first but turns out it's awesome!!!
10/10 (2019-02-22)







belle from america
to read this book, you'll need patience and time, and if you have patience and time, it is a waste of both not to read this book. it is worth it beyond measure.
10/10 (2019-02-10)







saujan from nepal
the book is good and interesting to read. though some lines are difficult to understand but it is interesting.
8/10 (2019-01-14)







marinette  from france
all in all, it was a good book. i read in my literature class once and i loved it! and to all the haters who gave it one star, put down you stupid phones.
9/10 (2018-11-08)







j from bermuda triangle
really good book. i recommend it to people who love the harry potter and eragon books. beautifully written with little to no confusing words. i read this book in the 7th grade like some of you.
10/10 (2018-11-08)







mikolaj from poland
simply amazing!
9/10 (2018-10-27)







alan from uk
it is a great story - a fantastic example of great english literature, even though i was made to read this book. i don't really understand why people would dislike it - or more, hate it. maybe it is just me. honestly, i have to admit that at times, it may get boring, but if you have the guts to finish it, you will, without doubt, enjoy it.
9/10 (2018-10-05)







jonah from canada
very good. much wow.
10/10 (2018-10-05)







kate  from usa
i loved the book but it is a little slow in some parts.
9/10 (2018-09-28)







gavin from north carolina 
i don't understand all these sad little 12 year olds, i read the book when i was ten and i loved it.
10/10 (2018-09-27)







jimjoe from uk
i notice there are a lot of one star reviews here from people who were made to read this at school. personally i am a fan of the hobbit and tolkien, however i would never choose it as a book to study with a class. at a young age i was behind my peers when it came literacy, reading and writing as little as i could get away with. one day i picked up the hobbit from the reading corner, the teacher quietly asked me if i was sure about my choice, as it was two bands above my recommended level (the books had a colour system to give an indication of reading difficulty) she seemed pleased enough when i said yes. the book had appealed to me for a while, i had heard a friend talk of it and had read the blurb on the back, however at that young age the size of the book and the grey sticker on its side were daunting. that night i took it home and spent what seemed like hours reading, many paragraphs i read twice trying to process the information (all those dwarfs with similar names.. which ones where related.. all those hobbit surnames). those early chapters were hard going and my bookmark showed i’d hardly made a dent in the story. something happened when the company left the shire, suddenly the pace of my reading quickened, i wasn’t worrying trying to understand who was who or what was happening, i could immediately visualise the landscapes that were being described to me, was gripped by each new character that was introduced. it took me ages to finish that book and when i did i was buzzing.. then i realised i wanted more. the following autumn i picked up the lord of the rings, pleased to see it was even longer and even more pleased when i started reading and quickly decided that this was going to be even better than the hobbit. this book was the first to capture me emotionally, taking me from reluctant reader to avid consumer of fiction. (however i would never choose this as a book to study with a class. it’s not going to appeal to all and forcing young readers to slug through something that for a children’s book is pretty long and slightly niche is likely to have the opposite effect to the one it had on me) i realise that this has to a certain extent been an anecdote more than a review, so.. i thought this was a brilliant book, deserving of it’s place as the godfather of modern fantasy. my advice to anyone who isn’t immediately hooked or immediately put off (particularly those who tend to enjoy fantasy and adventure) is stick with it till the journey really gets going, then make a decision.
9/10 (2018-09-21)







emmy from u.s.
"the hobbit" was a brilliant written book with a great sense of adventure. the book made me realize that i am too a very home person (as bilbo at first is) but, i know inside me i want a little adventure. i love the way tolkien had made the english language. the english really made an impact on the vibe of "the hobbit". i was given this assignment for a summer reading project but, even without the assignment i would have read the book anyway because, it was just calling my name!!!
10/10 (2018-08-08)







palwasha atif from pakistan
this book is so good. i love this book because it has many things in this. i love all of them except why would you think i hate this one dragon smaug so i recommend this book to read it. thank you.
10/10 (2018-07-11)







gaurav from india
i have watched the movie and also read the book. it is a great trilogy written by j. r. r. tolkien. it is an adventurous book, filled with stories about the dwarves, elves, orcs and the history of middle earth.
10/10 (2018-07-11)







priyam from india
in this book we get to know that it is only under uncomfortable situations we develop to become the best. as our protagonist, the hobbit bilbo baggins finds himself in an unexpected adventure, we see his growth as he makes his way out of many tough situations thrown at him with his intellect and courage, which he thought didn't have in him. the book has many great characters, especially gandalf and gollum and many others, a lot of funny situations and a great story, the best u can get out of this genre. so overall a great book and a must read.
8/10 (2018-07-10)







annie from usa
this is one of my favorite books of all time. i have read it several times, and it never gets old! a classic, must-read for all ages. even younger kids can enjoy it when it is read aloud to them! the story is captivating and set the foundation for many other amazing stories, and the character development is superior. tolkien is one of the greatest word smiths of all time. most of the people who gave it one star are in middle school reading it because they have to. but i am in sixth grade and can enjoy this book outside of school! i know from experience that over analyzing a book at school can kind of ruin it for you, so i would recommend reading it outside of school so you can appreciate it and read at your own pace and not have to do work on it. in short, this book is a masterpiece.
10/10 (2018-07-03)







yeet boi from yeet land
really good book, enjoyed it a lot.
10/10 (2018-06-25)







dadddi from antartica
this books explores so much of the english language and history as it incorporates anglo-saxon style epics with medieval ideologies all while representing middle-class english. with great representation of identity and love of home. <3 dadddi
10/10 (2018-06-21)







pranav from india
it is a very nice and adventurous book.
10/10 (2018-06-05)







mia from us
it's sooooooooooooooo gooooood.
10/10 (2018-05-30)







carter from minnesota
in my opinion this book report is very good. the reason i say this is because it doesn’t just say a summary or just say the summary and the theme. i tells you a lot more stuff such as life lessons, questions that we might ask, and the answers to those questions. the summary is for the whole story and has lots of imagery and details. the theme tells us specifically that we all have an “inner hobbit” which means don’t be scared of something just because you were scared last time. if you want to go on an adventure or do something that your scared of but on the inside you want to do it, listen to your inside. the question that stuck out to me the most was “what is a hobbit”. nobody has truly seen a “hobbit” but nowadays we refer to short or small people as hobbits. i hope you like my “book review review”.
10/10 (2018-05-21)







bronadh  from ireland 
this is the best book i have ever read it's amazing ❤ i love it
10/10 (2018-04-30)







stan from york
this is a very good book, from what i’ve noticed reading the reviews most of the people that rated it low are saying that because they had to read it at school and had to do loads of tests on it now i’m just saying but maybe if these people tried to read it again then they would enjoy it more. i’m 13 and have read it 2 times and the lotr series once.
10/10 (2018-04-22)







euan from england
the more i read the more i love it, such a good book👍
10/10 (2018-03-22)







firekitten from kitten landia
i love this book so much even though it takes a while to get in action it is well placed and is a great intro to lord of the rings.
10/10 (2018-03-19)







bob from bob land 
very interesting and easy to follow. definitely recommend this book to all ages
9/10 (2018-03-15)







shankar from india
it is an amazing book. the language is pretty good and the storyline is amazing though it can be slow-paced at times.
10/10 (2018-02-18)







carol from california
it's a wonderful read. the pages literally turn themselves! a must-read book.
10/10 (2018-02-08)







me from somewhere
it was a very interesting book. very slow at first but once you got into the book it was was hard to put down. it was a “tolkien” of excellence... sorry bad pun.
10/10 (2018-01-31)







kristian from denmark
a great introduction to the lord of the rings universe. it's well written and super exciting.
10/10 (2018-01-09)







charlotte from united kingdom
i love this book, it has so much excitement and imagination and it was hard to put the book down!
9/10 (2018-01-04)







nathan from australia
amazing book. never forgot the storyline because i read it too much!!
10/10 (2017-12-04)







anson from hong kong
this book was totally awesome. it’s plot is pretty nice and the story flows. how could people not like this? bilbo baggins was an amazing character and he rocks!!! a few months ago, i had a hard time finding a classical book to read, so i asked my parents and my friends what i should read. a few of them told me to read harry potter, but i got tired of those books. others told me to check out the hunger games series, but i thought it was meaningless. the remaining few told me to take a look at tolkien’s work, so i checked out the hobbit. i spent 2 hours reading it and it was awesome. best book ever.
10/10 (2017-11-08)







jasmine from usa
loved the book. my classmates had a hard time understanding and so did i.
10/10 (2017-11-08)







allen from philippines
i watched the movie of this and i think the book was okay, but it was so simple and straight forwards! there were no deeper meanings and it didn't make you think, excluding the part of the riddles. but i would expect this book to have made a bunch of metaphors and stuff like in the movie. i like lotr better than this so far. after bilbo left gollum, it got really really boring. (but i'm imagining the movie part while i reading the book because it's awesome while imagining it).
9/10 (2017-11-08)







izzy from england
amazing book love it so much better then the films!!!!!!
10/10 (2017-10-19)







evelyn from usa
i liked this book ok, but it was really hard to read, and almost impossible to fully understand what was going on without having to re-reading the chapter.
10/10 (2017-10-02)







max from aus
i am 11yo and have already read this book 7 times. i have also read the whole of the lord of the rings twice and the silmarillion once and loved them all. the hobbit is my favorite book in the whole world.
10/10 (2017-08-28)







el from australia
great, went bit slow sometimes but when it got into the exciting books i couldn't stop reading!!
9/10 (2017-08-05)







emily from usa
if i could rate it an eleven out of ten, i would. a beautifully written book. it makes me want to live there!
10/10 (2017-07-15)







juliet from england
i am a twelve year old reading the book for homework given to me by school. i am currentley on the fourth chapter of the book and i can't stop reading it! each chapter is beautifully written and the storyline is amazing! this is a book that when you get to the end you will remember all the characters and the story and it will leave you wanting more! i highley recommend this book to anyone willing for an exciting adventure with some of tolkien's best work!
10/10 (2017-06-19)







jonah from south africa
it was an awesome book to read. i watched the movie first and i prefer the book over the movie! it's also full of adventure and one of the best books i've read.
10/10 (2017-06-08)







someone from the netherlands
i'm a fourteen year old learning english as a second language. i had to pick and read a book for my english class. our teacher said that we had to pick something not too hard, like the hobbit or lord of the rings. as you might guess i didn't really listen to her and decided to prove her wrong with reading the hobbit. i really enjoyed the story and the use of words didn't really bother me at all. this book totally deserves a 10 out of 10. (sorry for bad grammar)
10/10 (2017-05-27)







trenton from america
really inspiring book.
10/10 (2017-05-16)







anon from uk
this book was truly amazing. the first chapter was a little hard to understand, but once i got going i was hooked. the classic writing style was kind of hard to comprehend for me at some points. but overall, great story, great characters, and great details. *please note that i am only in the fifth grade
9/10 (2017-05-05)







angel from australia
it's a really good book with so much detail and mystery! we have to read it for a school assignment and all of my friends say it is dull and confusing. personally i don't agree. love it!
10/10 (2017-04-26)







anisio  from long island
the book is way better than any other!!!
10/10 (2017-04-26)







taylor from australia
it is a great book.
8/10 (2017-04-25)







alex from america
you can tell that a linguistic professor wrote it.
10/10 (2017-04-13)







amber from australia
i believe that this is a very well written and inspiring novel. i am in 8th grade and are reading it as the class novel. while it can be a slow read at times it is overall a brilliant read. just as a side note, i don't understand why people giving this a 1/10 are even here, like if you hate the book so much and are to dumb to even slightly understand the quite simple storyline, then why waste more time leaving a review??? just saying xd
9/10 (2017-04-01)







jeff from england
a brilliant book.
10/10 (2017-03-26)







steve from america
i'm by no means a literary critic or an avid reader, but it is quite a good book, very mystical and exciting, though it can be boring at times, although this is the case with any book. if you're looking for a good classic then this would be a good book to pick up.
10/10 (2017-03-03)







seth from canada
good book.
10/10 (2017-02-14)







mnm from uk
this book is amazing!!!!!! love it!!!!!! :)
10/10 (2017-02-06)







paul from australia
lol the only people that didn't like the book were because they were in year 7 or something. i'm still pretty young, and i'll admit the vocabulary, etc. is a bit old-fashioned and hard to understand, but otherwise 10/10. the movies are great too.
10/10 (2017-02-05)







car from hong kong
those who rated 1 is total **** who knows nothing of literature.
10/10 (2017-01-22)







rob from round the roundabout
great book and all but a little confusing at times as well.
8/10 (2017-01-05)







ashley from north america
this book is a great introduction (and standalone) for anyone interested in reading the lord of the rings! i've seen a lot of complaints about the book being too "complicated," but i had this book read aloud to me at 8 years of age and i understood it just fine. this book is narrated beautifully with dark and light themes of heroism and with characters that you don't easily forget. tolkien is a magnificent writer and this is a book that you don't want to pass up.
10/10 (2016-12-01)







th from us
it is a good book.
10/10 (2016-11-16)







jackson from united states
a fantastic journey through middle earth. are you craving an extremely immersive book that you just can’t stop reading? the hobbit is one of the few books that has ever done this to me, being the beginning of a series of books that is probably my favorite of all time. the hobbit is a fictional fantasy book appropriate for 10+ ages. the hobbit follows the story of bilbo baggins, a hobbit, who is on a journey to steal back the magnificent treasures of the dragon smaug. the book managed to cover many things that i wanted to see whilst reading. i was immersed in the world, the characters, and the storyline. the plot never failed me. i always felt like i was in a productive part of the book, rather than a slow, unimaginative, and boring section. it is fun to read, and the series of books that it continues into, the lord of the rings, is an addition to it all, and provides nothing but more content to explore. the hobbit has the power to draw in any reader, and keep them for the entire ride. it has an amazing story, colorful characters, and an unforgettable adventure. the only problem was that it didn’t last very long, i just couldn’t stop reading!
10/10 (2016-10-07)







allaboutbooks from united states
loved this book! have been a fan of lord of the rings and tolkien since i was four years old. the author never lets down. it's an intriguing story as well as fun read; a great prelude to a great trilogy. if you liked this book like i did, you'll probably like the book some must fall. there's a cool website at: thecomingcrown.com
10/10 (2016-09-03)







jet from united states
this is an amazing book full of adventure and even thrilling at times, i have read it multiple times and always have enjoyed it. if you like a book about adventure then i highly recommend this one.
10/10 (2016-07-08)







tanya from india
its an amazing book. i think everyone should read it.
9/10 (2016-06-02)







alex from williams
one of my first books that i read (and some of you can relate yes?). the story is fairly linear, and no real character progression. black and white stuff here. but saying that, it still has that great fantasy feel. strongly believe its best to read this at a younger age and might seem to simple for an adult reader.
6/10 (2016-05-28)







micah from illinois 
#greatest book ever# blessed
10/10 (2016-04-22)







bilbo baggins from the shire
very good. but harder to read then your average harry potter book.
10/10 (2016-03-02)







tommy from w.v.
i love it!!!
10/10 (2016-02-24)







barin from india
it is the one of the best books i ever read. it is quite a simple language and is easy to read.
10/10 (2016-01-31)







agrima  from nepal
liked it very much. great work j r r tolkien.
10/10 (2016-01-19)







luna from denmark
bilbo baggins became my - and i am sure many other readers - favourite fantasy character of all time. the hobbit has everything a fantasy lover could want: hobbits, dwarves, trolls, goblins, wargs, giant eagles, wizards, shape-shifters, elves, giant-spiders and of course, a dragon. add to this a mythology that feels authentic and a love that shines out in all the locations and characters and you have a masterpiece of children's literature, read it to your kids. read it your yourself.
10/10 (2016-01-01)







p****t from canada
in class we're reading this, and nobody thought it would be good, because the majority of the class only ever read either books about romance (the girls), comics or celebrity magazines. whenever we read short stories in english class, we would be sooo bored, but this book was actually good (well so far it's good; we haven't finished it yet). it also helped, that we didn't read it all in a couple of days, we spent time with each chapter, really taking the time to understand it, and that helped the class to fall in love with the book. i never thought i would be searching up this book and now actually writing a review for it, especially since i was one of the people who wanted to read the hobbit the least, but here i am. i really like this book. i'm a teen in grade 9 right now, and this book really isn't bad, you just have to take time to really understand it and eventually (or hopefully) you'll start liking it too!
10/10 (2016-01-01)







banterman from over the hill and round the bend
i read this book a few years ago and loved it. i own the xbox game and the box set of movies. by the end of the book you really start to "feel" for all the main characters. i also love the lotr trilogy.
10/10 (2015-11-03)







dhisana from india
hobbit!!!!! it's so great!! even if it's a classic it's very interesting to read! and bilbo will always remain close to my heart! great work jrr tolkien.!!
10/10 (2015-10-19)







fili and kili of the dead from dwarf heaven
i found it amazing. i read it while in my last year of primary school and found it amazing. it was interesting to say the least. but all in all, i loved it in every way. i can't wait until i read the lord of the rings series.
10/10 (2015-09-02)







daniel from australia 
this is a brilliant book. i first read it when i was 11 and i love it. i am doing it for a project right now because of how good it is. a brilliant modern classic recommended to all.
10/10 (2015-08-06)







me from here
this is a really good book, the language too is pretty good. i did this for my drama exam and there are a lot of good excerpts and there is good scope for improvement... if you can imitate gollum's voice its even better. :)
10/10 (2015-06-25)







ian phares from us
the best book ever!!!
10/10 (2015-06-05)







tracy from england 
i love this book immensely!!!
10/10 (2015-05-19)







kaylee from new zealand
the book is amazing! it's such an interesting read and seeing what peter jackson has done with the book is interesting. i would totally suggest this book to other readers if they haven't read it already.
10/10 (2015-03-27)







petwa from murica
well julia you should go back to reading twilight!
10/10 (2015-02-20)







himika from india
a fitting prequel to tolkien's epic!! i liked lotr better but the hobbit is also a wonderful book!! bilbo is simply adorable! the only thing i did not like was the lack of females (which is why i am giving it a 9), but that does not reduce the book's charm. while lotr is a more dark novel, the hobbit captures every young readers' imagination. i read the book when i was thirteen, and two years later my heart still lingers in the green fields of the shire, the dark forest of mirkwood and the steep slopes of the lonely mountain. a definite masterpiece!
9/10 (2015-01-20)







bilbo  from the shire 
i love this book, it is literally my life and frodo's in a little trilogy.
10/10 (2015-01-20)







jasmine from slovenia
the only reason that i have given it a one, is because there are no zeros or n/a options and i have not actually read the book yet. i plan to check it out of the library tomorrow, because i feel as if i owe it to a good friend of mine to read at least one of his favorite books, because he's read two of my favorites already. truthfully, i haven't had a lot of exposure to the fantasy genre, being more of a realistic fiction person, but i suppose that there's a first time for everything:) thanks for letting on-the-fence readers such as myself your opinions. it always helps:):):):)
10/10 (2015-01-16)







christine from the united states
the hobbit is one of my favorite books. it's a great story, full of adventure and laughter and sadness. my favorite part is when they go to mirkwood. i've always been fascinated by elves, especially legolas and was happy when i got to read about where he was from and meet his father. i absolutely adore this book and really enjoy the movies as well!
10/10 (2014-12-29)







rakshit from india
i felt bad when this story ended, i was lost in story. and bilbo, my friend, i felt like i was with him throughout the story, doing adventures... love this book.
10/10 (2014-12-29)







aasim from india
awesome book. love it.
10/10 (2014-12-19)







aniya from us
this was an amzing fairytale. it left me wanting more and feeling like fili, kili and throin at the battle of the five armies. tolkien to me is an amazing author that created a fantasy land where it doesn't end with happily ever after. he shows that fantasy isn't necessarily a happy thing. he showed me this. thank you j.r.r. tolkien.
10/10 (2014-11-14)







ridz from india
oh gosh!!!!!!!! love dis book ;) dis can't be compared to harry potter or percy jackson n stuff coz this falls in a different league..... the descriptions r so vivid i really think i am ready to meet d hobbit n party n go for an adventure. book is better dan d movie.
10/10 (2014-11-01)







navid from bangladesh
the book was just spectacular . the story was amazing, awesome, astounding, fantastic and mindblowing.
10/10 (2014-06-14)







jen from us
the hobbit is a children's book that fully deserves the tag classic. i have read it twice now and each time have found myself completely lost in the world that tolkien has created. the book is definitely better than the film.
10/10 (2014-06-14)







max from usa
although this book is slightly hard to read, once you get into the story it is interesting and exciting. j.r.r. tolkien conveys a great message that there is more to a person than meets the eye. through all of the adversity that bilbo has to endure, he uses his wits to be the unlikely hero in every situation. although he is not the ideal hero, gandalf sees that bilbo is a courageous person inside. this book is appealing to all ages and to both men and women. just as there is more to bilbo baggins than meets the eye, this book is much deeper than just an adventure story.
10/10 (2013-10-11)







everybody from everywhere
this book is the jesus of fantasy novels!
10/10 (2013-04-19)







rj from philippines
best book ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
10/10 (2013-01-11)







henry from not telling
i love this piece of legend by dr.legend himself j.r.r.tolkien
10/10 (2012-12-19)







levi from america
it's a great book that deserves more than just my mere praise. i applaud tolkien not only for his brilliant series, but his vast imagination and contribution to the world of writing.
9/10 (2012-10-30)







pelle from sweden
fantastic! i have read the hobbit several times, and it is one of my favorite books of all time.
10/10 (2012-10-25)







ignacio from united states
this is the best book ever, the description was so vivid, it was like i was in the book, and the adventure thrilled me with every word.
10/10 (2012-09-14)







classified  from australia
awesome book, i think everyone should get it. i can't wait until the move comes out, so exited!
10/10 (2012-08-28)







kevan from india
i am surprised that the hobbit is as low as the 18th in your list. it is an outstanding novel with few peers.
10/10 (2012-08-18)







darin from usa
amazing book, i love how it describes everything, it feels like i could envision being there. a must read.
10/10 (2012-08-12)







nobody from nowhere
i love this book, it's full of adventure danger, and self conflict.
10/10 (2012-08-01)







joshua from england
i gave the hobbit a 10 because it is dynamic and so well written and so detailed that i could never possibly vote it lower then a 10, never. for those of you who have read the brilliant the lord of the rings would realise the structure of the book and how diffrently it is written. so to the point, the hobbit is a classic and tolkien is the king of all fantasy and as a 13 year old school-nerd would like to become an author so in a word i will describe the hobbit as brilliant. thanks for reading.
10/10 (2012-07-30)







luffy from one piece
it was a really epic book but some of the words were kind of hard...
10/10 (2012-06-25)







tom from uk
great for ages 14+ if you love fantasy. not as complicated as the lord of the rings, so it's a great taster for the fantasy genre and tolkien's books meaning a younger audience will enjoy it just as much as the older audience.
10/10 (2012-04-23)







henry pickup from leeds
i think the book is gripping because when i read the first page i went on and read a 100 pages in one night and then the next day i finished it!
10/10 (2012-03-14)







a.r. fallaha from syria
this is the best book i've ever read.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







jonathon from glasgow
a great read, just finished reading it for the first time and i'm sure i'll read it many more times. it chronicles the quests of the hobbit bilbo baggins on his journey to the lonely mountain and his adventures when he finally arrives. it is a deceptively large adventure in a deceptively small book. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







mariah from arizona
i really enjoyed reading the hobbit. i like fantasy in general, and i like seeing the backstory to lord of the rings, which i am currently reading. both are good stories, but the hobbit is faster-moving, more lighthearted, and somewhat easier to get through.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







je from banbry
i love the hobbit and the lord of the rings is just as good. i love them both!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







jojo from miami
the hobbit will have any reader lying on the couch for hours not wanting it to end.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







finlay
simple splendid imagination and brilliant adventure
simple - splendid imagination and brilliant adventure.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







mimi from manila
would love to read it over and over. tolkien could bring the stuff in children's dreams and nightmares to life.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







peter from canada
the hobbit is a recital of events, expressing divinity abroad an air of nothingness, an otherwise logical mind will find it will be able to start an unquenchable, superabounding desire to know more about tolkien and his works of secondary identity. 
8/10 (2012-03-01)







anthony from cardiff
this book is brilliant and a must read! i preferred it to the lord of the rings.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







rob from huddersfield
thank you to my year 1 high school english teacher (sorry, i forget your name). this was the first book he assigned me to read, and i have loved it ever since. what else is there to say but perfection and when my son is old enough to appreciate it, i will read it to him too.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







aaron from usa
this book was recommended to me by my freshman english teacher in high school. it is one of my, if not my favorite book of all times. i will keep reading this book until the day i die, and i will also have it berried with me. :) 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







nicolau from usa
this is the best book i've ever read and i believe it is his best work, much better than lotr.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







likkamatti from finland
it was so much fun reading the hobbit. it wasn`t better than lotr but it`s still one of my favourite fantasy books. it was happier than lotr and it`s more comfortable for younger readers. a very good book.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







angie
my favorite fantasy book. tolkien is simply amazing when it comes to writing. bilbo is such a good and solid character!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







unknown from coolsville
i love all the tolkien books but this one is my favourite!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







lara from stoke
this book is now over 70 years old and reads as well today as it did back then. the label "timeless classic" is given to too many books but in the case of the hobbit it is fully deserved.
bilbo baggins is the best character ever and even without the lord of the rings this book would still be around today.
what can i say? a timeless classic!
9/10 (2012-03-01)







jane from england
the hobbit is a lovely book, i must have read it at least 15 times between the ages of 12 and 30 and it gets better each time. i think you have the rating spot on with 9 out of 10.
9/10 (2012-03-01)









9.7/10 from 139 reviews

all jrr tolkien reviews

the legend of sigurd and gudrún 
the lord of the rings 
the hobbit 
the children of hurin 
the silmarillion 
roverandom 
tales from the perilous realm 
the art of the hobbit 
the story of kullervo 
the lay of aotrou and itroun 
beren and luthien 
the fall of arthur 
the fall of gondolin 
sauron defeated (the history of the lord of the rings: part 4)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the dragonbone chair by tad williams
(memory sorrow and thorn: book 1)





the dragonbone chair chronicles the coming of age of simon of hayholt; from scullion boy, to sorcerer's apprentice and beyond.  the book is broken into three story arch's: simon mooncalf, simon pilgrim and simon snowlock.  the story encompasses the peoples of ostren ard and the return of one of the elf-like sithi, the storm king, one time prince over the land, driven to madness by the destruction and greed of humans.a quote from the qanuc people of ostren ard regarding assumptions, "welcome stranger. the paths are treacherous today". make no assumptions and i will lead to new understanding.the path from boyhood to manhood is a perilous time for all young men, but never more so than for the kitchen boy simon.  orphaned, simon is watched over by rachel 'the dragon', mistress of the chambermaids.  rachel knows simon would rather be mooning about the castle, avoiding work and dreaming of adventure, and heroic deeds.  unable to contend with the imaginings of a young boy, simon is apprenticed to morgenes, the castle sorcerer and member of a secret group, the league of the scroll.  the league are keepers of long forgotten secrets and possibility the destiny of the land it self.  when the old king john presbyter dies, his first son elias is crowned king, setting of a chain of events that will force a king to forge dark deeds with beings of hate and malice.  the ramifications of which see a good man die for his friends, prince josua the second son of the dead king flee into the night, and a boy to crawl from darkness and madness to wander through the wilderness, the keeper of a kings secret.alone, cold and hungry simon journeys by foot towards prince jousa and his stronghold at naglimund.  a ragged and starved simon becomes the reluctant hero, coming to the aid of a trapped sithi prince.  gifted with a white arrow as repayment, simon is also befriended by a traveling troll named binabik and his wolf mount qantaq.  binabik explains to simon that the arrow represents a debt that is now owed to simon.pursued by the kings hunters, simon and binabik come to the aid of two travelers, malachias & leleth. harboring secrets of there own and stalked by the new king, the group flee deep into the forest.  cornered and without hope, help arrives in the guise of geloe the witch, a member of league. secrets are revealed and new relationship are formed until together the group wounded and depleted find sanctuary with prince josua at naglimund.recovering for there harrying journey simon and binabik with the aid of the last remaining members of the league of the scroll disclose to prince josua the secret of the swords of power and there importance in the up coming battle with the storm king and king elias. with battle lines drawn, a desperate plan is but into motion and a resolute band of explorers set out in search of a sword of power.  hunted once more, the group are attacked and only narrowed escape due to the help from an unexpected ally.  together allies old and new set out against winters cold bite in search of the resting place of the sword of power.dragons will arise, friends will fall and all will be marked, no more than simon, "you have been marked soeman… for better or worse you have been marked.".the story will continue in the stone of farewell…fergus mccartan, 8.5/10--the dragonbone chair follows simon as he becomes embroiled in an epic adventure. the book is the first part of the memory, sorrow and thorn trilogy and was first published in 1988.this is epic fantasy, nearly 800 pages of it and it lasts the pace well. the dragonbone chair brings together all the elements that are found in many a fantasy book and re-produces them in a beautiful and endearing way.simon, our hero, is an orphan boy and his story is told in a way that reminded me somewhat of robin hobb's farseer trilogy. i say this because we often listen to simon's inner thoughts throughout the tale and this is a very comforting narrative that really involves you in the tale.the characters are strong and well-formed and tad williams takes time early on in the book to fully round them out and put some flesh onto the bones. after we are fully introduced to the players and have become comfortable in the world then the pace of the book really picks up and the strands of the tale spread out until there are multiple storylines on the go at the same time.this is a very worthwhile read, if you find it a struggle initially, stick with it as these early chapters are important and leave you perfectly placed to enjoy the gripping story that is to follow.epic, traditional fantasy of a high standard.floresiensis, 8.5/109/10 epic, traditional fantasy of a high standard.


buy on amazon

reviews by fergus mccartan and floresiensis
7 positive reader review(s) for the dragonbone chair
12 positive reader review(s) in total for the memory sorrow and thorn series







the dragonbone chair reader reviews

sigreid from scotland
simply amazing. loved every page, can't wait to start the second book! the details are immaculate...
10/10 (2019-11-21)







campbell from canada
an amazing book, each detail is of the utmost importance. the minutiae, the detail, and the way tad williams brings everything together by the last book is amazing. tad williams is one of the few people i would call a genius. the character development is outstanding, and the way each and every storyline connects is breathtaking. i would put this series on the same tier as the greatest fantasy novels of all time. the ending, while unorthodox, is perfectly symbolic of the history that permeates the series.
10/10 (2019-11-21)







grace from america
the book is sooooooo amazing. couldn't drop until the end. can't wait to read the others.
10/10 (2018-12-18)







joel from canada
i enjoyed it the series. first book = amazing. secound book = good. third book = ok. third book - part 2 = ..what? i have to say i was recommended this book by sites relating it to books such as, kingkiller chronicles or the mistborn series. definitely not in their realm as it has little to no magic other than "the art", which really isn't much of anything. has amazing characters and a great plot (quest) but really lacks in the final book. its mind-boggling how bad the ending is. it wasn't that it was poorly written or i didn't agree with the events. it just was built up and up and right when its about to get interesting... goes nowhere and then oh, here's a long epilogue. there basically was no conclusion. id say its worth a read but try not to be disappointed with the ending.
7/10 (2017-12-28)







xavier from austria
this is traditional epic fantasy and has the strengths and weaknesses that you often find with this sub-genre. regular fantasy readers will find much that is familiar but most will find comfort in this. the path of the story, from orphaned keep boy to adventures that lead to mighty battles and conversations with the great and powerful, is well trodden. as is the journeying from point to point, interspersed with events of importance. williams writes a pleasant narrative and if you enjoy books such as lord of the rings, the wheel of time, belgariad and shannara books, and are looking for a similar style of fantasy, then the dragonbone chair should be on your to-read list.
8/10 (2015-11-10)







mike from usa
i really enjoyed this book from beginning to end. i can see why george r. r. martin was influenced by this series when he wrote a song of ice and fire. there are many similarities. i love the characters in this book. they feel very real. this book made me want to be doctor morgenes' apprentice, instead of simon. i wanted to climb to the top of green angel tower. i wanted to visit the ruins of the ancient sithi cities. this book awakened in me a feeling of loss for a people i had never known, and for a time i have never seen. tad williams breathed life into this world, and i loved every page of this novel.
10/10 (2015-06-13)







jack from chester
think lord of the rings is the greatest fantasy series of all time? think again. once you begin these books, it is impossible to put them down... seriously! tad williams makes you feel for the characters, like they're real and you want to reach the end to find out what's happening, but don't want the book to end. the twists in the plot and the way he ties them together at the end is amazing... if you want fantasy then read this now!
10/10 (2012-03-01)









9.2/10 from 8 reviews

all tad williams reviews

god rest ye merry, gentlepig (a bobby dollar novella)
the heart of what was lost (a novel of osden ard)
the dirty streets of heaven (bobby dollar: book 1)
happy hour in hell (bobby dollar: book 2)
sleeping late on judgement day (bobby dollar: book 3)
the witchwood crown (last king of osten ard #1)
empire of grass (last king of osten ard #2)
memory sorrow and thorn (memory sorrow and thorn)
the dragonbone chair (memory sorrow and thorn: book 1)
the stone of farewell (memory sorrow and thorn: book 2)
to green angel tower (memory sorrow and thorn: book 3)
the dragons of ordinary farm 
the very best of tad williams 
shadowmarch quartet (shadowmarch quartet)
shadowmarch (shadowmarch quartet: book 1)
shadowplay (shadowmarch quartet: book 2)
shadowrise (shadowmarch quartet: book 3)
shadowheart (shadowmarch quartet: book 4)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the black company by glen cook
(chronicles of the black company: books of the north, book 1)





every now and again i get to read a book or series of books that have not been touched by other reviewers on the site, but really should have been. the black company series by glen cook is one of those series, and i apologize for taking so long to get to these wonderful books. with them, in the words of steven erikson, “glen cook single-handedly changed the face of fantasy.”and i totally agree; something that doesn’t always happen with such hyperbole.the black company, the first book in the series of the same name, tells the story of the black company, last of the free companies of khatovar, the last of the twelve true companies. they are an elite mercenary force, hundreds deep at the moment, but once numbered in the thousands. glen cook immediately draws us into an action packed world that is free with death, unlike so many books where the death count seems miraculously non-existent.the company are dragged out of one conflict, maybe dishonourably, and into another. but are they on the side of good or evil, or can you even tell? brought into the war between the lady’s empire and the rebel, the company fight with soulcatcher, one of the ten who were taken, they are driven back and back until the last stand is fought against the circle of eighteen and the rebel.but all is not what it seems, and machinations between the ten taken and the lady might bring everything to ruin if the company can’t help soon.told from the first person point of view of croaker, the company’s physician and historian, we’re taken deep into the folds of the company, what makes them tick, the honour that they hold close to their hearts and the strength that makes them unstoppable.cook makes the most of his us navy career, including a tour in the vietnam war, in bringing us a story ripe with realistic fight scenes and reactions. gone is the bravado of some storytellers with characters able to withstand anything and ignore everything. characters are lost early in this book, and the reactions to those losses are heartbreaking.i was absolutely captivated by this story, with its gritty realism and fast paced storytelling. and the perspective from which the story is told, that of the company’s analyst recording the history of the company, is really clever. you get the feeling you’re actually reading the accounts of croaker, even if they are at times obviously not.the black company is a brilliant book, and now available in omnibus form makes for the perfect opportunity to jump into the black company story.review by leethe black company by glen cook is the first book of the nine that make up the black company series. first published in 1984 this book was responsible for taking the fantasy genre and turning it on its head with his introduction of realistic characters and its complete disregard for fantasy stereotypes and the age-old battle of good versus evil.the black company forms the remnants of a one great mercenary army. led by the physician and annalist croaker, the company must search a civil war torn world for the last hope – the white rose.this is an arresting story full of black humour told from the first person perspective of croaker. the world in which we arrive is fantasy-medieval and the first thing that we notice is the non-existence of the fantasy stereotypes to habitually grace (haunt?) the pages of fantasy literature. tolkien or eddings this is not, if you are aware of steven erikson’s work then it may not surprise you to learn that glen cook influenced erikson greatly. there is no good versus evil battle going on here; this is fast paced action where all the harsh realities of military life are laid bare.glen cook uses his real-life military experience in the us navy to excellent effect by creating a gritty, realistic and very believable existence for the mercenary soldiers that form the black company.you are thrown straight into the middle of the action and this leads to an initially confusing opening to the book, you are unable to make head or tail of what is going on but your perseverance is rewarded as the chapters fly by and things begin to fall into place. once the initial confusion is over, the fast pace grips you and the book becomes highly addictive. glen cook’s writing is not the best than can be found and is not on the same level as say a robin hobb but it is very honest and straight to the point and this style fits well with the military feel of the book.there are no larger than life characters to be found in the black company, all contain frailties and failings that are found in all humans. this book is beautifully amoral and contains no two-dimensional characters. as i’ve already mentioned, the black company is a wonderfully amoral book, often dark and containing violent battles and fantastic characters. glen cook changed the face of the fantasy genre forever – and for the better.9/10 the black company is a wonderfully amoral book.


buy on amazon

review by joshua s hill
11 positive reader review(s) for the black company
23 positive reader review(s) in total for the chronicles of the black company series







the black company reader reviews

david from canada
this is a keeper. the whole series is. cook has gone where no one had gone before (sorry, but he did!) as a reader, he sucks you in and then it's a dead run, ok occasionally a long march that turns into a dead run when the stuff hits the fan, to the next bit of chaos. character driven, it's so full of twists and gut wrenchers that you reach the end reaching for the next book.
10/10 (2019-01-25)







jacob from denmark
this is such an amazing book. the chapters might be very long, but the amount of content and detail within them is a work of art. though it's on paper a militaristic fantasy novel, it's really all about the characters. croaker is one of the best and most complex protagonists ever created.
10/10 (2016-10-31)







wes from west virginia
the ultimate adult fantasy novel. you will love the point of view of croaker, the story's main narrator. he makes the story personal for the reader, yet still manages to imprint upon you the world changing implications of what is going on in the story around him.
10/10 (2015-10-17)







larry from usa
i've read all ten titles in the series. and could stand to read more. excellent series.
10/10 (2014-11-30)







david from armenia
the definitive dark/military fantasy novel that changed the rules of the game, the black company combines realism and clipped narrative with strategically placed passages of poetic beauty. perfect read!
10/10 (2014-03-10)







aaron from bangkok
do yourself a favour and read these books! absolutely brilliant style of writing and a brilliant story. up there with the best i have read.
10/10 (2013-09-24)







anthony from usa
despite me not knowing what's going on for the first quarter of the book, all the characters are well drawn, fights seem very realistic (though i've never been in a fight or war). and during the first 10 pages a member of the company dies, still with only 9 pages of build - up i thought " i feel bad for that guy". i didn't actually cry, but i realized this was the book for me. just the right amount, a heap of the gritty realism of war, and 3d characters. one word can describe glen cook: awesometacular.
8/10 (2012-08-30)







rebecca from aniams
amazing. few books make me change my favourite author, but this one did!
i love croaker, you have to, but soulcatcher is, and always will be, my favourite charecter. once more, an amazing book and story! go glen cook!
10/10 (2012-03-23)







james from swindon
glen cook invented a (sub) genre with this ground-breakingly brilliant book and series. due to his style and point-of-view discipline (if you want flowery prose and lengthy exposition--or even a map--look elsewhere), it can sometimes be hard to follow, but the reader is rewarded with an epic story told from an entirely new perspective. and tvrtko (above) is missing the point about the names...
9/10 (2012-03-01)







abi from mansfield
simply brilliant. i'm keeping this concise as i could rave about this series for longer than you would care to read. 
9/10 (2012-03-01)







fred from walton
this was a much needed kick up the backside for a genre that badly needed it. weighed down with stereotypes and cliches until glen cook came along and blew them all away with flawed characters (in the good sense!) and gritty and realistic plots. very militaristic in its theme this is a book that takes no prisoners and gets right to the point.
9/10 (2012-03-01)









9.5/10 from 12 reviews

all glen cook reviews

bleak seasons (books of the glittering stone)
she is the darkness (books of the glittering stone)
water sleeps (books of the glittering stone)
chronicles of the black company (chronicles of the black company)
port of shadows (chronicles of the black company)
the silver spike (chronicles of the black company: barrowlands, book 1)
the black company (chronicles of the black company: books of the north, book 1)
shadows linger (chronicles of the black company: books of the north, book 2)
the white rose (chronicles of the black company: books of the north, book 3)
shadow games (chronicles of the black company: books of the south, book 1)
dreams of steel (chronicles of the black company: books of the south, book 2)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the silmarillion by jrr tolkien






the silmarillion by jrr tolkien was not published in his lifetime. it was completed posthumously by the professor’s son christopher tolkien and first published by harper collins in 1992. jrr tolkien first began working on the history of middle-earth in 1917 and the work continued up until his death in 1973. the paperback edition holds 480 pages.the silmarillion provides the background to middle-earth, the setting of the hobbit and the lord of the rings. it is an account of the elder days; the first age when morgoth, the first dark lord dwelt in middle-earth and the war waged upon him by the high elves to recover the silmarils, jewels containing the pure light of valinor.jrr tolkien has created a compelling mythology in the silmarillion. the many references contained within the lord of the rings to the elder days are fully explained here. it must be made clear that is not a book written in its entirety by jrr tolkien. the professor’s son christopher has taken a collection of writings regarding the elder days and put them together in the form of the silmarillion.and christopher tolkien has done an excellent job. there were many doubters amongst tolkien fans but what we are given is a rich set of tales that explain in rich detail the mythology behind tolkien’s fantasy world. this is a tough but worthwhile read, the writing style is completely different to that used in the hobbit and the lord of the rings – this reads like a history book (and one you wished was part of the school curriculum). middle-earth has its very own creation of story, one that shows tolkien’s love of the greek, roman and norse mythologies. there is love, betrayal, friendship and power all in evidence here and the characters and races that grace the hobbit and the lord of the rings are given a history that not only makes you want to read the two books again but also makes you see everything in a completely new light. there is great beauty in places, the tale of beren and luthien being the highlight.the silmarillion is best read if you have already read, and enjoyed, the hobbit and the lord of the rings. the creation of middle-earth and the history of the elves, orcs, sauron, gandalf and much more are explained, and explained well. the silmarillion showcases the depth and brilliance of jrr tolkien’s imagination; it even features family trees of the characters. the full majesty of jrr tolkien’s unfolds - he changed the fantasy genre forever when he wrote the lord of the rings. readers began to expect the same amount of effort in world and character creation from all authors – some have managed to emulate but many have fallen by the wayside.it is told among the wise that the first war began before arda was full-shaped, and ere yet there was anything that grew or walked upon earth; and for long melkor had the upper hand. but in the midst of the war a spirit of great strength and hardihood came to the aid of the valar, hearing in the far heaven that there was battle in the little kingdom; and arda was filled with the sound of laughter. so came tulkas the strong, whose anger passes like a mighty wind, scattering cloud and darkness before it; and melkor fled before his wrath and his laughter, and forsook arda, and there was peace for a long age. and tulkas remained and became one of the valar of the kingdom of arda; but melkor brooded in the outer darkness, and his hate was given to tulkas for ever after.in conclusion, read the hobbit and then the lord of the rings. if you are as captivated by them as most of the reading world is – the silmarillion will give you the extra information you crave and answer the questions that the two prior books threw up – who exactly are gandalf and sauron? how did the orcs come into being? why are the elves leaving middle-earth and where are they going?9/10 read the hobbit, then the lord of the rings and then the silmarillion.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
18 positive reader review(s) for the silmarillion







the silmarillion reader reviews

krste from croatia
now, this is in my opinion tolkien's magnum opus. from the creation of the world to morgoth's tyranny to fall of numenor, silmarillion is a book of such an epic scale. it lacks the narrative of lord of the rings, but there is a reason for it. its a history book of the mythology of middle earth, having the finest worldbuilding i have ever seen. its easy to get confused while reading it, especially if you are not tolkien enthusiast, due to its lightning fast pacing and thousands of elven lords with similar names. but, once you pay attention to it, its hard to not get swept in its glorious storyline.
10/10 (2021-01-01)







manwe sulimo from valinor
the silmarillion! all that needs to be said!
10/10 (2020-05-14)







joyce from america
the silmarillion ... this is not just a fantastic book written by an intelligent professor— this is a magical tale that comes alive! i wasn't just reading about all of it. i was in it. i was there, filled with awe and wonder at the creation of arda. i was there, wandering under the stars with the eldar. and with the eldar, i passed through darkness and gloom and into the brilliant light of valinor. i was there with elu thingol when he fell into enchantment with melian, and when luthien was born, i was there. when the trees fell, i wept with the eldar, and i came with finarfin to alqualondë to witness the kinslaying. i held desperately onto galadriel as she led us through the ice. i ... i was there in all of it. the silmarillion doesn't make us escape from reality. it teaches us to face them, strongly. it gave me hope, even when i was in the dark. if you haven't already read it, go read it now! it will change your life forever.
10/10 (2019-11-06)







john from the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland
a masterclass in world-building, 'the silmarillion' is a seminal work of fantasy, and yet one that is not for the casual reader. it's clear that tolkien poured all the wealth of his astounding imagination and passion into this project, and so for all that it strikes you as enormously impressive. unfortunately, though, this biblical epic loses some of the deceptively simple beauty of 'the hobbit' and 'the lord of the rings', with the labyrinthine prose likely to throw some readers (as it certainly did me) into tedium. if you can hobble through the endless names and twisting dynasties, however, then i'm happy to report that satisfaction is the reward.
8/10 (2019-06-03)







esther from the netherlands
what a marvellous book! after reading several other works of tolkien, my expectations were high, and i was not disappointed. i at first had some issues with the rhythm, as sometimes the centuries fly past and at other times the story progresses in slow-motion, but within the second chapter i found peace in it. a wonderful story in a well-known beloved setting!
9/10 (2019-04-16)







george from georgia
this book is the plateu and skeleton of all fantasy books. if you want to be a charachter of the fantatic world, you must definitely read this book. from the beggining as every book for me it was hard to understand. but then it got so interesting that i felt freedom while reading the book. i personally am a big fan of fantasy books. tolkein made me a fan of that world which undiscoverable and so interesting that every second you think of it. thats why i give this book 10 out of 10.
10/10 (2017-08-09)







josiah from canada
the silmarillion is tolkien's best book! it is amazing how he wrote two languages and lots of words in other languages. i can't stand people who call his books boring or flat, because they are just amazing!!!!! thank you tolkien for filling up countless hours of my life with your books!
10/10 (2016-12-09)







nathan from australia
the best book ever written a true marvel of high fantasy any other works pale in comparison especially when comparing to the vast scope and beauty that is the silmarillion.
10/10 (2015-02-04)







nathan from usa
this book is incredible. i am 13 years old and i do not understand why people call it "flat" or "boring". it is a grand sweeping epic that spans thousands of years and generations of characters. from the creation of the world to the tale of beren and luthien, the silmarillion is a vast complexity of a novel filled with intricate plot and brave heroes.
10/10 (2014-11-03)







luke from durham, north england
as someone who read the silmarillion at the age of eleven, and completely enjoyed it, i confess i have little patience with those who simply dismiss the work as boring or long winded. neither did i personally find it in any sense dry or overly detailed, since the descriptions of beings from the shadowy ungoliant to the heroic haleth and her woodland people are drawn in fine and epic detail, often with a deep sense of mystery and drama. indeed, while the style is more poetic and mysterious than lord of the rings, at the same time tolkien's mastery of language, both as dramatic tool as well as evolving spoken or written myths ensure that the very cadence and rhythms of the book are calculated exactly, indeed i'd highly recommend hearing martin shaw's complete reading of the book to get the full experience of tolkien's use of language. take for instance the description of the hall of morgoth, "upheld by horror, lit by fire, and filled with instruments of death and torment" (quoted from the chapter of beren and luthien). in no way does this equal the descriptions of the dark tower in lord of the rings, yet at the same time in it's scarcity of phrasing, it evokes a far darker and more mysterious picture, far more akin to myth and story than the believable, historical nature of lord of the rings. it is true that the book cannot be read casually, or simply as a random fantasy novel, and it is also true that if you are not already immersed in the language and culture of middle earth much in the silmarillion will be a bit impenetrable, however it was never the purpose of the silmarillion to be light reading or to show anything less than a grand and legendary scale of events. such a mythology has it's own sweeping beauty, and one which no other fantasy writer has achieved (albeit some have come close). the only major criticism i have, is that while the first 7 eighths of the book dealing with the creation of middle earth and the struggles of the elves and first men against morgoth are drawn in great, if biblical detail, the final chapters feel somewhat flat by comparison, compressing as they do two ages of the world, (including the entire lead up to and detail of the hobbit and lord of the rings), into a tiny space by comparison. it is true that tolkien himself gave far more attention to the first age and it's epics, and (other than in lord of the rings and especially it's appendices), than the matter of westernesse and the second age, however i rather feel christopher would've been better leaving matters at the end of the first age with a correct and poetical ending detailing that some day sauron would rise again and seek the mastery which morgoth had attempted to claimed, rather than basically saying "and then n�menor fell, and then lord of the rings happened" he even cites the actual books of lord of the rings and the hobbit quite directly, effectively saying "go off and read about things in those other books". so, while i have only admiration for those parts of the silmarillion that are fully fleshed out, and the many beautiful accounts of the elder days, i do rather wish that was where the book stopped, leaving the rest of tolkien's history to the work already published in lotr and the hobbit, or perhaps, if indeed any complete accounts of the second age and the drowning of numenor were ever completed by tolkien outside the material in lotr, publishing that account else where as in fact was done in sauron defeated. despite this flaw though, and even admitting that there are probably those who find the style of the silmarillion rather too dense, i still have no hesitation in awarding the book an outstanding 10, (indeed i'm sorry the scale can't go higher). while the silmarillion does somewhat serve as an extended background to lord of the rings, even considered under it's own merits it has a fullness of language and richness of style all it's own that it would be a shame for any lover of both middle earth and of language and poetry to miss.
10/10 (2012-12-26)







soumya from india
an epic which is comparable to the iliad in its scale...novice readers might struggle with the amount of detail as well as the style of writing,but in my opinion,it will be impossible to fully appreciate the depth of tolkien's world unless this book is read. and yes,i like it even more than lotr or the hobbit. 
10/10 (2012-10-02)







joshua from england
well, to me, the silmarillion, as a young 13 year old was an extremely hard read but once i got through it, it was brilliant for those of you - like me - who have read the lord of the rings or the tobbit will know that the silmarillion is a blessing to read and is brilliant in almost everyway. yes, some may call this "bloodless", "flat", those people are wrong, or simply silly, and cannot even comprehend how much detail and imagination has gone into one book so "haters" - why dont you all try creating your own language, your own maps, and even your own history see how hard that is and then i will listen to your jealous review that i pity.
10/10 (2012-07-30)







gollum from the shire
tough, but for any tolkien fan it is really worthwhile. christopher tolkien has done brilliantly, it is a masterpiece.

10/10 (2012-04-30)







simon hanzal from czech republic
not only did i love the book of its own, i also devoted my years school job to it and to the deeper meaning that it holds. i am more than fascinated by the level of expression of love and the beautiful against the evil and selfish. if i would view this book as a story or a fantasy novel even if it is not exactly the most readable. i don't and that is why i love it. philosophy - that is why i really keep endlesly thinking about it.
10/10 (2012-03-20)







derric from anderson, sc
 definitely for only the die-hard tolkien fan. this book is an amazing and touching read, more of a history than a story, but i still found a connection with the characters. morgoth is even blacker than sauron, who is one of the noblest corrupted things you'll ever read about. a perfect literary work.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







rowan from australia
the silmarillion is the highest quality fantasy there is. it is a work of indescribable majesty and breathtaking concept. tolkien is the ultimate master of high fantasy. however, the silmarillion is only for die-hard tolkien fans who have already read the hobbit and the lord of the rings. it is more a history than a novel and goes into complex detail which, while sweet for tolkien fans like myself, could be confusing for those new to tolkien. 
8/10 (2012-03-01)







andrew from scotland
incredible. to begin, the read is slow and at times confusing due to the huge cast as it were, but slowly you begin to realise the enormity and scale of this book and anyone studying the history of our own earth would know that such things are as complex and lengthy as any. just when you think the plot is lost in the midsts of the many, seemingly unconnected, chapters tolkien time and again brings back the main thrust of the epic plot. kudos also to cristopher tolkien for including the many extras which serve to aid in the understanding of the many houses in those days and their respective histories and bloodlines. quality.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







estel from lucknow
i like fully realized magical realms with its complete back-history and mythology. the silmarillion aptly serves this purpose. this not a typical novel but a simple chronicle of events; a guide to the wonderful realm of middle-earth. don't start tolkien straightaway from here; otherwise you would only get deluged by the vast array of characters and plotlines. i admit that the novel could have done more with a bit of finesse and sometimes it gets difficult to keep track of things (appendix at the book can be used as a reference), but it's still great. this masterpiece demands only one thing: patience.
9/10 (2012-03-01)









9.6/10 from 19 reviews

all jrr tolkien reviews

the legend of sigurd and gudrún 
the lord of the rings 
the hobbit 
the children of hurin 
the silmarillion 
roverandom 
tales from the perilous realm 
the art of the hobbit 
the story of kullervo 
the lay of aotrou and itroun 
beren and luthien 
the fall of arthur 
the fall of gondolin 
sauron defeated (the history of the lord of the rings: part 4)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




titus groan by mervyn peake
(the gormenghast trilogy: book 1)





titus groan is the seventy seventh earl of gormenghast in waiting and his birth begins this story and that of his rather eccentric family, their servants and the kingdom of gormenghast itself. the story covers the first two years of titus’ young life, from birth to his investiture as the seventy-seventh earl and everything that happens in the kingdom of gormenghast during this time. the events, which lead up to the ‘earling’ of little titus, involve treachery, greed, murder, madness and revenge. there are also touches of real affection and lots of subtle humour.the beginning of the book certainly grabs your attention as the story begins outside the walls of gormenghast castle with the dwellers and draws you in with the birth of titus to his most unconventional mother, the countess gertrude. the story flows well with the help of characters such as flay who almost acts as unwitting guide to the reader around the castle and the other players in this tale.the main protagonists in the story are the groan family; lady fuchsia, titus’ older sister, lord sepulchrave, the seventy-sixth and current earl and the countess. their dysfunctional relationship with one another translates through their relationship with their servants and subjects. central to events is steerpike, a very bright and opportunistic kitchen porter looking for a way out and seeing the insecurities and mistrust within the royal household ripe for exploitation, not least through sepulchrave’s twin sisters cora and clara who are constantly looking for ways to unseat their sister-in-law and bring their own profiles to the fore. he is also intrigued with lady fuchsia who whilst drawn to him also is deeply suspicious of him.“isn’t he sweet, oh isn’t he the sweetest drop of sugar that ever was?” said mrs slagg.“who?” shouted the countess so loudly that a string of tallow wavered in the shifting light.the baby awoke at the sound and moaned, and nannie slagg retreated.“his little lordship”, she whimpered weakly, “his pretty little lordship”.“slagg”, said the countess, “go away! i would like to see the boy when he is six. find a wet nurse from the outer dwellings. make him green dresses from the velvet curtains. take this gold ring of mine. fix a chain to it. let him wear it around his wry little neck. call him titus. go away and leave the door six inches open.”from: a gold ring for titus: titus groanthe character of lady fuchsia appears to be the one innocent; titus being unaware of anything happening around him and being as yet unable to interact with any of the unfolding events, she seems torn between her status of royal of gormenghast and being a normal teenage girl looking for her parents love and attention. her main confidant is doctor prunesquallor, the royal physician, who seems to be the only person in her small and fettered world that seems to truly care about fuchsia and her welfare.the book is written in the third person, which allows the characters and events unfold simultaneously. the land of gormenghast is described in enough detail for you to realise that this is a land unlike any other, especially gormenghast castle and certainly adds quirkiness to an already unusual tale. my favourite parts of the book are when you begin to see steerpike’s dark side and how he skilfully plots his next move like a chess game. i also very much enjoyed the sub plot involving sepulchrave’s manservant flay and the chef swelter.deliciously dark, titus groan is the first book of the gormenghast trilogy so it is to be expected that towards the end of the story new characters are introduced and new plots begin whilst old ones are left resolved. this certainly gives an air of ‘cliff hanger’ to the final chapter and i am impatiently looking forward to reading the next book in the series.9/10 deliciously dark.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
6 positive reader review(s) for titus groan
10 positive reader review(s) in total for the the gormenghast trilogy series







titus groan reader reviews

herman from usa
without question the greatest fantasy novel/trilogy this side of lotr. the notion that george martin, steven erickson or any of the modern pretenders is even in the same league as tolkien or peake makes me laugh out loud. if you question that judgment just read a couple of paragraphs from each of the authors and give some thought to the quality of the prose.
10/10 (2017-08-21)







dalei from spain
the best thing i have ever read. absolutely beautiful and magnificent; a masterpiece. the book itself is a piece of art.
10/10 (2014-03-18)







david from ireland
these novels aren't easy reads, but they are works of genius. the prose is hauntingly beautiful, the characters are wonderfully imagined but it's the location that is this trilogy's crowning glory. weighed down by tradition and ritual, gormenghast shapes all those who grow up in its shadow. while this weightiness makes the first read difficult, the vivid images that remain in the memory make perserverence worthwhile. in my mind it deserves to be ranked among the top 3 fantasy books, perhaps as the greatest.
10/10 (2012-09-25)







sharon from us
revolutionary. world of series falls apart like a house of cards--seminal sensibility for modern sci-fi fantasy and i'd put in top 20.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







robert from ashburton
they are well written and very good books.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







paul from australia
first started reading approx 30 years ago. since then have attempted to read it about 3 times yet have never finished it. it is a tough read... slow and ponderous come to mind. descriptive and dark. 6/10 for what i've managed to read...
6/10 (2012-03-01)









9.3/10 from 7 reviews

all mervyn peake reviews

the gormenghast trilogy (the gormenghast trilogy)
titus groan (the gormenghast trilogy: book 1)
gormenghast (the gormenghast trilogy: book 2)
titus alone (the gormenghast trilogy: book 3)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the sword of shannara by terry brooks
(the shannara trilogy: book 1)





one of the more frustrating assertions to come from the so called “literary critics” are claims that “so and so author” is copying “so and so.” they use this derogatory critique as a way to deprive the author of any originality in their storytelling. and while i can't speak for every book that has received this “critique,” i can speak for terry brooks' shannara trilogy.written across a span of 8 years crossing the end of the 70's and early 80's, terry brooks first leap into the realm of shannara was impressive, to say the least. however, sadly, brooks' work has oftentimes been unfairly called a pale imitation of tolkien's lord of the rings.whether this is because there is a wizard, a quest, or a variety of races, i'm not sure. but it is a layman's comment and one that, in shannara's case, is definitely not on the mark.the simple fact of the matter is tolkien was not the original master that everyone claims: he simply reinvented the genre. he would be the first to tell you that he borrowed, begged and stole from other mythologies and – for the invention of his languages – past and present languages.but putting aside this unfair criticism of the shannara series, let us look specifically at the first of the original trilogy. the sword of shannara introduces us to the four lands and their people. we follow the adventures of shea ohmsford, resident of shady vale, but half-elven. he soon finds himself the unwitting pawn of the druid allanon in a quest to find the sword of shannara in an attempt to defeat the warlock lord.brooks manages to weave in and out of the story characters that may later become important, or are simply there to move the story along for a little while. some characters you will love others you will hate. characters like allanon will provide you with a never ending source of unease, while characters like flick will at times annoy and at times make you laugh.in its truest sense, this book is a fantasy adventure. gnomes, elves, dwarves and “men” all appear, along with magic, warriors and magic swords. the fate of the world is at hand, but similarly, brooks manages to begin eliciting the question “where is all this happening.” he also manages to wonderfully keep a lineage of characters continually appearing in the following two books, and on. the sword of shannara is not only the beginning to a trilogy, but an entire world that will amaze you and enthrall you if you let it.the book is not perfect, however. it does not have the same gripping and enthralling dialogue that lord of the rings has, and is not as well written as books by hobb or erikson. there are times where you will find the need to put it down and read something else, simply to take a break and recharge. not that it is a bad read, but more that it sometimes becomes heavy handed and measurably boring.spending any time in wikipedia is sometimes a hazard. in this instance, you will find many references to critiques from authors and reviewers alike. however it is nothing short of amusing to see how intent some of these people are to degrade brooks' work. they draw tenuous and tedious links between characters and places in an attempt to say that brooks “ripped off” tolkien's lord of the rings.and while i will agree that brooks draws inspiration from tolkien, he doesn't copy him.the reason i linger on this is to hopefully, impress upon you an open mind to reading this book. do not cross this book off your “to read” list because you've heard people knock it. similarly, do not go into reading this book attempting to cross reference everything back to some other work. this is a book that deserves being critiqued on its own merit.6/10 this is a book that deserves being critiqued on its own merit.


buy on amazon

review by joshua s hill
7 positive reader review(s) for the sword of shannara
12 positive reader review(s) in total for the the shannara trilogy series







the sword of shannara reader reviews

olden from us
great book, read book in early 80's. it kinda mimic's "lord of the rings". favorite character is allanon (the druid), whose powers come from the age of men...long ago. men who were unlocking the secrets of god... by way of science, which also gave him the ability of long life or immortality. gave others an unnatural fear of him... something dangerous!
8/10 (2020-09-20)







james from united states
easy to read.
8/10 (2019-10-25)







peter from england
very good, do not compare this to tolkien. many have imitated him and why not he was a genius. this book and the two others in this series are great reads and stand in their own right. there is a lot of snobbery in the fantasy readers world of course there are similarities to lord of the rings as there are with many others. this book is well worth reading...
10/10 (2017-10-02)







michael from us
though i am now 44 this book is one i always read again every so many years. the entire series is excellent however the sword of shannara is what originally roped me in. it will unlock your imagination and you feel for the characters. you feel as though you are in the story. i know terry brooks himself has said the lord of the rings influenced him however i find his books more entertaining and easier to read.
10/10 (2015-09-21)







troy from usa
i'm not really a reader but, once i started reading it i couldn't put it down. i read it straight through, i was addicted, i will definitely buy it and every shannara book i can get my hands on. if i could give it more than a 10 rating i would.
10/10 (2015-09-10)







hannah from u.s.a.
thank you so much for finally writing a fair review of this book. this was the first book i ever read out of this genre, and i am probably biased as far as this particular book is concerned, but i find it unfair and somewhat distressing to see so many people bashing it. the dialogue is a little cumbersome sometimes, but you have to remember that this is terry brooks' first novel, so you can't expect it to be perfect. having read almost all of his books, and being an aspiring writer myself, i can appreciate brooks' growth over his writing career. this book will always have a special place in my heart, even though it isn't perfect by any means. i highly recommend it. 
9/10 (2013-04-17)







justin from australia
a top read. easy and fun characters that you quickly begin to bond with as you read. the story has a nice flow and you are never left reading for chapter after charter with no action. highly recommended. 
9/10 (2012-03-01)









8.7/10 from 8 reviews

all terry brooks reviews

paladins of shannara: allanon’s quest 
bearers of the black staff (legends of shannara: book 1)
the measure of magic (legends of shannara: book 2)
legends of shannara (legends of shannara: book 2)
dark wraith of shannara 
wards of faerie (the dark legacy of shannara: book 1)
the black elfstone (the fall of shannara #1)
the shannara trilogy (the shannara trilogy)
the sword of shannara (the shannara trilogy: book 1)
the elfstones of shannara (the shannara trilogy: book 2)
the wishsong of shannara (the shannara trilogy: book 3)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




circe by madeline miller






this is a beautiful book; it is flawless and intelligent. i do not have a single criticism for this fantastic piece of writing. i loved it!circe chronicles the life of a lesser god. she is the daughter of the mighty god helios, the living embodiment of the sun. she is born without any talents or powers. she exists in the shadows of her more developed brothers and sisters. she does not shine in such spectacular company. however, gifts come in many different forms and those with hidden talents are overlooked and devalued. more often than not quiet people are forgotten about and there worth ill-considered in all walks of existence. circe’s family never saw what she could become. power is important, though sometimes having none teaches one a greater lesson: nothing is worth having unless it has been earned. as such circe wills herself into power as she discovers her affinity for witchcraft, especially the art of transformation.her family banish her from their company for her use of such a lowly art, and in doing so they set her free. she finds herself in her exile. on her island home she finds a paradise not a prison. she becomes one with nature and finds company with lions and wolves. centuries pass, ages pass, and eventually some rather important characters come her way. she meets hermes and athena, icarus and his farther daedalus, and odysseus, a man who changes her life and causes her to make a very powerful decision that leads this book into such an excellent conclusion.“but in a solitary life, there are rare moments when another soul dips near yours, as stars once a year brush the earth. such a constellation was he to me.” circe offers a huge story, a story that spans generations and includes many greek heroes and gods. such is the nature of godhood, of immortality. when life goes on forever many notable people cross one’s path. and despite the huge number of famous characters here, none of it felt forced: it all slotted perfectly into circe’s life. there are so many myths that intertwine with circe, like the story of the minotaur and the fall of icarus, though despite the famous nature of many of them they don’t for a second overshadow her. she met prometheus when she was young and decided that her life would not be the same as the other gods: she was going to be her own woman. and this is a book about her finding the most ultimate form of freedom. i could not recommend it more highly. i really liked the song of achilles though this surpassed it in every way. i really hope to see more from this author in the future. 10/10 this is a beautiful book; it is flawless and intelligent.


buy on amazon

review by sean barrs
1 positive reader review(s) for circe








circe reader reviews

sissa from us
it's 2020 and i've just finished reading circe. i'm not a book reviewer but my god what a beautiful story. i also enjoyed her previous book song of achilles, but circe was ethereal perfection.
10/10 (2020-08-05)









10/10 from 2 reviews

all madeline miller reviews

circe 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the way of shadows by brent weeks
(the night angel trilogy: book 1)





i twittered the other day (follow me at twitter.com/joshshill/) that i had just realized people don’t actually want good writing, they just want to be entertained. this might seem like a realization i should have made earlier, but there it is. and while some may think that that is obvious, i think it’s just plain sad. books should be a combination of entertainment and good writing.that leads me to the way of shadows, by brent weeks. my girlfriend leant me the book and i was tasked with reading it as soon as possible. and while the intent of the author was laudable, the actual telling of the story was ... amateurish.first let me praise the book though, so that any of my grievances will not necessarily dissuade you from reading the way of shadows.the first in a trilogy of books, weeks introduces us to a master assassin and his new apprentice. the world is intriguing, and any book that looks into the dark and shadowy world of assassins is immediately interesting to me.sticking with my desire not to summarize the entirety of the book for you, and negate any need to actually read the book (looking at you sffworld), here’s what i can say. coming up from the gutters where life is less than cheap, azoth, aka, kylar, is apprenticed to the cities best wetboy (better than an assassin).over the course of a decade and more kylar is trained in the arts of death. but at the same time the city in which he trains is itself coming closer to its own death. political intrigue, the life and times of the noble court and lots of death make up what was a brilliant concept. apparently though, i am doomed to continually read books by authors who have conceived of a novel and, at times, brilliant idea, but failed to complete even a basic introductory writing course.the way of shadows was poorly written. from basic grammar and spelling mistakes and whole words missing from sentences leaving the reader baffled, to a structuring that seems to only be suitable to a rare type of schizophrenic, this book was a very tough read.any character that sees their name written more than once in the book was eventually given their own perspective, leaving the storytelling muddy and confused. i was often left spellbound, only to be unexpectedly dragged away to some irrelevant and boring passage. i’m all for cliffhangers, but they have to be done well, and weeks hasn’t the writing know-how to pull this off.often characters or descriptions would stray so far into the obscure, uninformed or downright confusing that the story would halt and leave you scratching your head. whole pieces of information were left by the wayside and dragged the reader down with it.should you read this book? i am not going to be giving this to people for presents anytime soon, but maybe lack of serious writing talent is not a hindrance to an enjoyable book for you. it’s your choice. either way, weeks had serious potential, and one can only hope that it gets better in the books to come.9/10 weeks had serious potential.


buy on amazon

review by joshua s hill
31 positive reader review(s) for the way of shadows
30 positive reader review(s) in total for the the night angel trilogy series







the way of shadows reader reviews

enai from us
i'm not sure what this person was reading, but it wasn't the night angel trilogy. the story is interesting, the pacing top-notch, the characters reasonably well-rounded and believable/likable. the writing is perfectly competent. there may well have been typos, possibly even more than is usual (all books have some), but i doubt you'll notice unless you're specifically looking for it- i certainly didn't. it definitely doesn't take away from the story, at any rate. sort of an amateurish thing to harp on in a book review, tbh. strongly recommended. i'm a fairly picky reader and had tried and aborted several books prior to this (i always have trouble getting started on a new book or series after finishing a previous one), but this one kept me enthralled from page 1. i wouldn't say that its an all-time great fantasy series like tolkien or rr martin or anything, but its probably in the next tier down, easily one of the better fantasy series you'll read.
9/10 (2020-12-31)







camden from america
i think that the book was really good, but there was some of those typos that left me baffled. but as i kept reading the book, the typos didn't madder any more, it was addicting to read so i read the first book in a day. s o i recommend this book to read and i think that you will most definitely enjoy this book alot.
10/10 (2018-04-23)







me from us
to be fair... we all want to be entertained more than anything while reading books. if your paying attention more to grammar and spelling errors than to the story itself you should probably pick up a dictionary instead. the overall story of the entire series is very good. leaves just enough to the imagination that you want to pick up the next book and continue the story.
9/10 (2014-01-08)







nick davison from england
i had no problems following the storyline and have to say that the night angel trilogy as a whole, is one of the richest, most engrossing, creative, and entertaining fantasy works i have ever read. perhaps there are editorial mistakes in this book, i can't remember having read it a few years ago, but don't let that put you off. as a trilogy, night angel is one of the very best out there.
10/10 (2013-08-26)







aniek from netherlands
i thought this was one of the most amazing books i´ve ever read. the action is awesome and i loved how mysterious everything was. maybe not always correct spelling, but that´s only relative with the awesomeness of this book.
10/10 (2013-05-29)







raven from united states of america
the most awesome book i have ever read.
10/10 (2012-09-28)







eric from canada
my favorite book of all time!!!!! great characters, plot, and action scenes. i could not put it down! 
10/10 (2012-09-10)







joe davies from england
easy to read, fast paced and keeps you guessing. read this for quick, action packed scenes with quite a complex plot. however, don't expect literary perfection. suitable for mature teens and over. 
10/10 (2012-08-29)







anthony from sydney
great book, a must read.
10/10 (2012-04-13)







tarje  from norway
this is, without doubt. the best book i have ever read, and i have read a lot of books. but the world weeks have made in this books is simply amasing, and with both lovable, and hateable characters and a great complex storry that would make anyone proud. it has great language and is writen so well i never put it away once i start reading it, i have read all his books many times and never grow tired og the amazing storyline. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







slip from the slipstream's concscious
decent?!? being a fan of fantasy i have read both ends of the spectrum and everything in between. i forgot to pack a book when traveling recently and could only grab a book by cover art due to the limited time restraints of my flight departure. i chose this unfortunately.
the book has the framework to be developed into an incredible and almost original story. its copywrite is 2008 and i'm pretty sure assassin's creed came out before or during that period. regardless, all forms of pop-culture and media feed off each other and we are forced to swallow this.
i enjoyed the charcter development...when they were being developed. years went missing in this story when all of a sudden childhood friends have ascended to an influential part of society. weeks attempts to persuade the reader in a short few sentences that this is ok, and i suppose it is b/c it is mainly about kylar/azoth's acceptance of his role and the struggle he has to let go of his past.
it insists on the reader to assume the happenings in the gaps of time...then boom! kylar/azoth is face to face with doll girl/elene after his first kill(s)...then boom! durzo has a daughter...then boom! it goes on and on and on.
worth a read, shit i gave it an 7 out of 10 but this could have easily been a 9 or 10 with proper patience and development of environment and character/story arcs. descripitive and at times brutal, it has enough of the superficial to overlook the lack of profound writing.
cheap and rewarding.
7/10 (2012-03-01)







sarah from west midlands
loved it! couldn't put it down and finished the 2nd and 3rd in short order to. and i think a few foibles in the writing (not that i noticed enough to get hung up on it) only make it more real!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







nancy from minnesota, usa
the cover was a serious turn off, i wasn't expecting much, but started reading because my husband couldn't put the book down. i finished the book in one day, i couldn't put it down. you know so many books get high reviews because of their so-called great writing, and i can barely finish them, they are so boring, almost feels like the authors are in love with their own writing. this book is not about great writing, this book is about a great story, told in an exciting, well edited way, without boring paragraphs describing what the hero is wearing or what the town looks like.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







graeme from newcastle
i honestly thought when i first started reading the way of shadows that it was going to be a winner, but unfortunatley i was left dissapointed. it seemed that kylars ageing happened to quickly, throw some random bad language in and you've generally got a book that had great potential but went off the boil. the plus side is durzo blint is a cool character.
6/10 (2012-03-01)







dave from melbourne
best book ever! i read a book to be entertained and that is exactly what it did.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







torak from somewhere
i thought the characters were realistic, the world was well developed and it didn't try and be nice. more still, when you read the other books you realize it is more complex and clever than just an assassin creed type bloodbath.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







tom from ohio
great characters and a little on the dark side.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







stephen king from portland
i 'm in a state of utter disbelief to find that it was possible for a few select people to label this novel, and its author as anything short of genius. brent weeks created a world with the capability to challenge tolkein and his middle earth. the genuine characters were backed with incredible depth in such a way so as cultivate an incredible journey, which is at the heart of any good fiction novel. his co-linear storyline would hook me instantly, leave me at a climax and then real me in with a new chapter. all in all a masterfully addictive piece of writing in which the world and characters unravel before you; only to be re-strung by the many twists and turns, leaving the reader with an uplifting sense of catharsis. 10/10 i couldn't put it down.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







josh from yorkshire
i don't think it's the writing, i think it's the love for the characters and the place and the culture that makes it a good book; one that builds up the history and surroundings so that it becomes a real world instead of just some people in a book. i was moved by the way of shadows because i wanted him to succeed and because i felt sorry for azoth. i think that the passion for the characters is enough to beat good writing for this time.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







leanne from east anglia
i disagree with many of the points about the writing, i didn't find it confusing, in fact i found it well written because it suited the characters themselves. personally i couldn't put it down and had to order the next in the trilogy as soon as possible!
9/10 (2012-03-01)







shawn from west virginia
i found this book to be very good. it is true that there are some confusing moments. however, if you slow down a moment and read on through, the story will grab you and take off. it's a great story, definitely worth a read.
8/10 (2012-03-01)







jeff from michigan
you sir must enjoy reading dictionaries. i found the book to bee thouroughly enjooable. sorry for mi spelling and sentense structure.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







anonymous from where?
good writing can only be read by good readers, literature if for writing, fantasy is for enjoyment. good book, i never really had a problem with reading it. i found i could never put it down :)
10/10 (2012-03-01)







kyle from new hampshire
i loved this book. although i agree that it can be confusing at times, and jumpy at other times, there are just some pivotal points and areas of the book that grabbed my interest so deeply that it urged me to keep reading. i'm probably a little biased, i'm not judging this by grammar, spelling, or anything like that. i'm judging it by how much i enjoyed it as a whole. 
9/10 (2012-03-01)







noor from canada
wow this is an amazing book. i can't find anything better then this. i'm actually trying to find a book with the same story line but i can't :(
10/10 (2012-03-01)







cory from oklahoma
the concept of this story is outstanding. the people and their stories are very enjoyable. i don't know if it is mr weeks's writing or his editor but it feels as if whole sections of story are missing. like you just catch up with the characters weeks or months later. but i would recomend this series to anyone...
7/10 (2012-03-01)







jamie from wichita, ks
i completely disagree with the review. i don't care much for trying to give an english lesson. i care about the story which was a great start to one of the most amazing series i've read. book 2 is even better than the first, and book 3 is even better than that. if you don't take the time and read "the night angel" trilogy, then that's your loss.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







jim from chicago
i completely agree with your assessment. finding a grammatical or spelling error in a (supposedly) proof-read novel is like listening to a (supposedly) competent speaker who says "um" or "uh" multiple times. i find myself counting the mistakes... i did, however, enjoy the book and would recommend it to anyone looking for a good fantasy novel.
6/10 (2012-03-01)







dan from england
massivly disagree with the reveiw. ok, some of the writing is not brilliant but i found that with this book that i couldn't care less. the story line and range of incredible characters more than makes up for a few spelling and grammatical errors. buy this book!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







steve from calgary
i can hardly find words to describe how much i disagree with this review. this book was absolutely thrilling from beginning to end. if you have a hunger for proper spelling and grammar as much as the reviewer i suggest picking up the latest installment in the merriam-webster dictionary series. i like my fantasy gritty, bloody and absolutely no "warrior on a quest" type garbage; needless to say this book delivered. i was not too thrilled with some of the characters right off the bat (logan gyre comes to mind.) but by the end of the book i knew i was going to be buying the rest of the trilogy.
buy it, read it, love it.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







kyle from texas
i completely and utterly disagree with you on most of your points; granted there are numerous spelling and grammatical errors. the first of a trilogy (soon to be more, brent is working on three more books in the same world) has to introduce a lot of story and character and world building. to me, brent is already a master of his craft. he is ballsy and took a completely new approach to fantasy, which is highly admirable because he probably knew he would get people like you slamming him for it. but he did it.
you must read all of the books in the series to fully understand why it was necessary for him to incorporate so many perspectives; it makes for a vast experience of a story. it is a massive achievement and i have read it through at least twice already. if you read all three and still hold that mr. weeks is a poor writer, i feel pity for you, my friend. anyone reading this, get the books; you will not be disappointed.
10/10 (2012-03-01)









9.3/10 from 32 reviews

all brent weeks reviews

perfect shadow (a night angel novella)
the black prism (lightbringer: book 1)
the blinding knife (lightbringer: book 2)
the burning white (lightbringer: book 5)
the lightbringer trilogy (the lightbringer trilogy)
the way of shadows (the night angel trilogy: book 1)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




storm front by jim butcher
(the dresden files: book 1)





lost items found. paranormal investigations. consulting. reasonable rates. no love potions, endless purses, or other entertainment. harry dresden is the best and technically the 'only' at what he does. so when the chicago p.d. has a case that transcends mortal capabilities, they come to him for answers. for the 'everyday' world is actually full of strange and magical things - and most of them don't play well with humans. that's where harry comes in. takes a wizard to catch a - well, whatever.take your standard noir detective with a sarcastic frame of mind and a weakness for helping damsels in distress, add in wizardry, vampires, werewolves, talking skulls, pizza loving fairies and all things paranormal and this is what you get. a quirky, fast paced and thrilling ride through a chicago you never thought possible. trying only to pay the rent, when the police are stumped on a case harry helps out, while also trying to find a missing husband. things soon get complicated when it becomes obvious there's black magic afoot - and the council of wizards suspect harry. already under the doom of damocles, a form of wizardly probation for past transgressions, harry has to risk execution to discover who the shadowman is - and why he's killing people.this is a superb debut - and only the first of many. great characters, a mystery that twists and turns like a corkscrew and above all, harry, a wizard with a world weary sense of humour, who takes life on the chin.9/10 this is a superb debut - and only the first of many.


buy on amazon

review by julia knight
1 positive reader review(s) for storm front
5 positive reader review(s) in total for the the dresden files series







storm front reader reviews

catherine from uk
i've been reading the dresden file books for several years now and preorder each new one, because i think they're a fantasic collection of easy to read, great fun novels with a brilliant lead character who is just really cool to put it bluntly. set in modern day chicago but with a wealth of supernatural creatures, sidhe queens, vampires and holy sword bearers each new novel skips along, and i defy you not to get caught up in sheer energy butcher manages to put in. if you read several of these back to back it does become clear that there is a distinct arc to each book, so there's a catastrophe and dresden has a very limited amount of time to kick loads of ass, blow things up, get nearly beaten and then come storming back, but he builds well over the many books and gets increasingly more powerful without ever becoming dislikable. i'd recommend this series to anybody who likes fantasy.
9/10 (2013-04-08)









9/10 from 2 reviews

all jim butcher reviews

the aeronaut's windlass (the cinder spires #1)
furies of calderon (the codex alera: book 1)
academ’s fury (the codex alera: book 2)
the dresden files (the dresden files)
war cry (the dresden files)
storm front (the dresden files: book 1)
turn coat (the dresden files: book 11)
cold days (the dresden files: book 13)
skin game (the dresden files: book 15)
peace talks (the dresden files: book 16)
battle ground (the dresden files: book 17)
fool moon (the dresden files: book 2)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




rivers of london by ben aaronovitch
(rivers of london series: book 1)





there is something eminently satisfying about coming across a new author and finding that he is utterly brilliant. that is exactly what happened when i received ben aaronovitch’s book ‘rivers of london’ the other day. i had been looking for books that were similar to kate griffin’s series of books focusing on matthew swift, and i came across aaronovitch’s name (thank heavens for amazon recommendations).diana gabaldon is the author of several books and is quoted on the front of the book saying “what would happen if harry potter grew up and joined the fuzz”, which in my opinion is a quick and easy way to thoroughly underrate aaronovitch’s work.the quote had immediately put me off when i picked up the book - as had a few things in the blurb. i had expected a harry potter-esque tale in a world where everyone is slow to grasp what is happening. i expected similar aspects to rowling and griffin’s work, where the magic would be kept under wraps, hidden from the authorities, and would never emerge into the light of day.every time i thought that aaronovitch was going to write himself into a trope, or a scene where he’d have to take the easy way out, i was surprised.in fact, i was excited.ben aaronovitch has written a book that never left me disappointed in the choices he made as author, nor in the choices of his characters. when ghosts appeared, people talked to them without freaking out. when the crimes were attributed to magic and relayed up the chain of police command, it was taken in stride. when it looked as if the ramifications of the magic were going to leak out into society and end up on the front page of the news, that’s exactly what happened (though, without it being attributed to magic … i didn’t want the whole world to know what was really going on, and that’s exactly the way that aaronovitch wrote it).in many ways, this book is a grown up version of harry potter. magic exists. the authorities know about it and have taken certain measures. people are willing to believe it exists and is affecting the crimes they are investigating.just because the world works so well, doesn’t mean the characters would. but they do. aaronovitch has a beautiful grasp on his characters that makes them realistic and fascinating. they’re not invulnerable, nor are they perfect. no one always makes the right decisions, and no one continually makes the wrong decisions. they are, in all respects, human (even the non-humans).aaronovitch has a lot to live up to, in my opinion, because kate griffin is definitely one of the best writers currently living and she has made an art out of making the city in which her books take place become a character as integral as the speaking-two-legged ones. while not as adept and intricate as griffin, aaronovitch does make london almost as tangible to the reader as griffin does. he is not as detailed, which could be a good thing, and he doesn’t make his characters walk as much as griffin makes hers, so you miss a little bit that way as well. but neither of those things are a bad point against him, they just make him different from griffin, which in and of itself is almost as good as being the same as her.all in all, you have to read this book. whether you like good writing, good fantasy or urban fantasy, good characters, or simply a breath-taking story set in a breath-taking world, this book is for you. because it is all of those things, and much much more. aaronovitch has written a book that will surely become a favourite on many shelves the moment they’ve finished it at 3 in the morning.9/10 a breath-taking story set in a breath-taking world.


buy on amazon

review by joshua s hill
2 positive reader review(s) for rivers of london
6 positive reader review(s) in total for the rivers of london series series







rivers of london reader reviews

lena from norway
i really liked the connection between magic and science and also that it's set in modern london. this book gets along without all the mystery, legends and pseudo-historic things that are normally found in fantasy book. a very entertaining book, however it won't change my life. ps.: read a more complete review here: http://lightsandtraces.blogspot.de/2013/05/rivers-of-london.html
8/10 (2013-05-16)







karen from england
it isn't quite a crime novel, and it isn't quite a fantasy novel, but it is very, very good... was recommended to me by somebody else (who obviously knows what they're talking about), read it in a couple of sittings, and am two-thirds of the way through number two in the series, with number three lined up ready to go, that's how hooked i am. it's always good to find a new author, and even better to find one that doesn't disappoint you after the first book, and that's happened to me more times than i care to think about. read it now!
9/10 (2013-04-23)









8.6/10 from 3 reviews

all ben aaronovitch reviews

rivers of london series (rivers of london series)
rivers of london (rivers of london series: book 1)
moon over soho (rivers of london series: book 2)
whispers under ground (rivers of london series: book 3)
broken homes (rivers of london series: book 4)
foxglove summer (rivers of london series: book 5)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




james and the giant peach by roald dahl






james and the giant peach is a much-loved children’s book written by the world-renowned welsh author roald dahl. first published in the us in 1961 and the uk in 1967, the book’s rich imagery and amusing characters have made it a firm favourite of both children and parents for over 50 years.when poor james henry trotter loses his parents in a horrible rhinoceros accident, he is forced to live with his two wicked aunts, aunt sponge and aunt spiker. after three years he becomes "the saddest and loneliest boy you could find". then one day, a wizened old man in a dark-green suit gives james a bag of magic crystals that promise to reverse his misery forever. when james accidentally spills the crystals on his aunts' withered peach tree, he sets the adventure in motion. from the old tree a single peach grows, and grows, and grows some more, until finally james climbs inside the giant fruit and rolls away from his despicable aunts to a whole new life…roald dahl wrote many excellent children’s books and james and the giant peach is up there amongst his very best. this brilliant and hugely popular story of james’s journey to new york alongside his insect friends is a joy for children to read and a delight for parents to read from. the book’s humour is always warm and the story is always engaging, providing a multitude of memorable moments.when dahl made up james and the giant peach as a bedtime story for his daughters olivia and tessa, little could he have know that half a century later millions of parents would have read exactly the same story to their own children. a book that fully deserves the accolade of children’s classic.9/10 a firm favourite of both children and parents for over 50 years. 


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
79 positive reader review(s) for james and the giant peach







james and the giant peach reader reviews

jeff kinney from australia 
amazing!
10/10 (2021-11-30)







anonymus from india
it is a splendid book. one of my favorite books.
10/10 (2021-06-14)







anonymus from lol really?
love it!!!! :)
10/10 (2021-06-02)







noxolo ndelane from south africa
best book ever.
10/10 (2021-01-18)







james from uk
love the book.
10/10 (2020-09-08)







james and the giant peach from uk
when poor james loses his parent’s because of a rhinoceros accident, he is forced to live with his two horrible aunts, aunt sponge and aunt spiker. after three years he becomes “ the most saddest and loneliest boy” in the country. then one day, james wanderers in the woods. he sees a wizened, old man in a funny dark green suit who sprung up from the bushes. he gives james a bag of magic crystals that promises to reverse his misery forever. when james accidentally spills the crystals on his two aunts, a withered peach tree strikes into motion . the adventure begins......
10/10 (2020-08-20)







olivia from uk
i loved james and the giant peach as it inspires me to be courageous, kind, generous and helpful! this book is amazing!
10/10 (2020-06-20)







diana from germany
it's gucci!
9/10 (2020-04-05)







princess from london, england
i like it�'��'"�'�
10/10 (2020-03-23)







shwesa  from nepal
it ia an amazing book. i love the character of james.
9/10 (2020-02-16)







anon from uk
this book is so nice, i like it.
10/10 (2020-02-05)







campbell from redding
it's amazing!!!
10/10 (2020-01-14)







kartik  from india
a good book but hard word to understand for small children below 10 year
9/10 (2019-11-26)







namita from india
this book was amazing. it just made me little emotional at first but when james adventure started, it was superb!!!!
10/10 (2019-11-05)







abhi from india
good book. recommended to all.
8/10 (2019-11-05)







millie from england
it was the best book i ever read in my life because it is adventurous book to read and makes me happy and i would like to say thank you to roald dahl for writting many books that inspires a lot of people. may god bless all readers!
10/10 (2019-09-30)







moe sheikh from labanon
love this story.
10/10 (2019-08-26)







basil from sharjah
the book is interesting and funny. roald dahl is a great author. this book is good for young children.
10/10 (2019-08-02)







ali from pakistan 
this is a great book and it's filled with a lot of adventure.
10/10 (2019-07-03)







mbali from south africa 
this book is full of adventures and i really enjoyed reading it
10/10 (2019-06-09)







jayden from south africa 
it was great to read and the story it self was good i definitely recommend this for kids
10/10 (2019-06-03)







ethan from pakistan
it's an amazing adventure. the best story ever.
10/10 (2019-05-20)







jessica from london
very very very good
10/10 (2019-05-08)







flame from south africa
this book is awesome i love it. something does not have to be real for it to be real.
9/10 (2019-04-29)







jamie from united arab emirates
i loved this book.
9/10 (2019-01-30)







samlags from amsterdam
helped me a lot in school.
10/10 (2019-01-28)







minahil from pakistan
i love it! 😊
10/10 (2019-01-08)







adrian from india 
awsome book. i loved it.
10/10 (2018-11-13)







bushra from pakistan
its amazing!! i absolutely love the plot <3
10/10 (2018-10-09)







uma from india
it is such an awesome book. i love it.
10/10 (2018-09-22)







dazy from england 
the book is awesome
10/10 (2018-08-01)







pooja from india
i will read the store in hindi.
10/10 (2018-06-24)







fatima from pakistan
it is amazing😍😍😍
10/10 (2018-05-15)







unknown from ireland
james and the giant peach is a great book and is made by my favourite authors roald dahl you should also read charlie and the chocolate factory.
10/10 (2018-05-08)







umaima from pakistan
james and the gaint is written by roald dahl. its about a boy james loses his parents and was forced to live with his aunts.one day he met a man who gave him green crystals and promised that his all problems would be solved. unfortuanately those magical crystals fell on ground and near old peach tree.then the peach grow grow growed who was really famous.then james was totally changed................
9/10 (2018-05-07)







hi from uk
very interesting and sometimes funny kids book although some parts are boring.
7/10 (2018-05-01)







arafath from africa 
amazing book
10/10 (2018-04-22)







marriam from america
the best book ever.
10/10 (2018-03-08)







david from uk
james and the giant peach is far by one of roald dahl’s best books. it is very funny. when james the main character goes to london with his parents a rinocerous gobbles them up. poor james is taken to his horrible aunts who treat him terribly. will he escape? roald dahl is one of the best writers ever. you will very much laugh when you see what happened to the aunts.
10/10 (2018-02-08)







samah from pakistan
this is a great book.i really loved reading it and roald dahl is the best author ever. kids do read this book its amazing!!!!
10/10 (2018-01-31)







taha from pakistan 
wow! what a book  best to read all the time. so intersting roald dahl.
10/10 (2018-01-18)







mohammed zaid khan from singapore 
i love the book, it's my favorite.
10/10 (2018-01-07)







zainab from italy
love it.
10/10 (2018-01-07)







mary from america 
the book is fantastic and interesting.
6/10 (2017-12-24)







zaid khan from india
it is my favorite book ever.
10/10 (2017-12-24)







maheen  from pakistan
this is a very good story! you can also read it. it's a bit of a new one for young children 6-9 years. 
10/10 (2017-12-21)







taha from pakistan
i love this book a lot. roald dahl is the best author of all time.
10/10 (2017-12-04)







natasha  from india 
i personally liked the book. it is good for young readers as you can have a quick read. roald dahl is one of my favourite authors. i love the language he uses, the numerous words he has invented. the theme of the book is hope and friendship. a very important life lesson has been taught to us through this extremely hilarious and wonderful sweet book. i would recommend it.
9/10 (2017-11-17)







ansh kumar from indonesia
cool!!!!!!!!!!
10/10 (2017-11-04)







vidushi from india
it was an amazing story but i was really sorry and pity full sometimes in the story for james.
10/10 (2017-08-25)







anon from pakistan
wow! children should read this book.
10/10 (2017-08-21)







vartika from india
the book was amazing but i felt pity for poor james.
10/10 (2017-07-19)







ali from russia
cool !!!!
9/10 (2017-07-16)







saad from england
amazing !!!!
10/10 (2017-07-16)







moeed hassan from pakistan
it is fantastic and very good read for the children.
10/10 (2017-05-18)







serena r from england
james and the giant peach is the best book that i have ever read.i love the animals, they are so funny with their peculiar characteristics.i even find james' two aunties are funny although they were very mean and rude towards james.i definitely recommend this book , specially to young readers like myself.
10/10 (2017-05-08)







shreyank from south africa
awesome!!!
10/10 (2017-02-03)







anam from canada
the book james and the giant peach is a great book that teaches you to have hope. in the book james is an orphan that lives with his 2 cruel aunts in a ramshackle house and a desolate garden. but with a few magical seeds and a dead peach tree, james' life is about to change forever. roald dahl is the author of many great children's books that all teach you to have perseverance and to never give up. the book "matilda", also by roald dahl, is about a 4 year old girl that lives with her cruel parents but escapes with her sheer knowledge. hopefully james will find a better home, friends to play with, and a welcoming environment. this roald dahl book is sure to keep readers on the edge of their seats till the last page.
10/10 (2016-12-31)







kinza from pakistan
loved it!
10/10 (2016-12-28)







mashal from pakistan 
james and the giant peach is a fictional novel . it is best for kids . james and the giant peach is written by the famous author roald dahl . this story is about an orphan boy james henry trotter who lived with her aunts and was the saddest and lonniest boy ever . one day while he was working he saw an old man fully dressed in green he gave him magical powder but it was james bad luck that he fell and the powder scattered around an old peach tree . suddenly a peach as big as an house grew and it was growing much bigger and bigger . james saw a tunnel in the peach and he entered in it . his adventure to a new and lovely place started . this book is amazing for kids to read it . my favourite part was when the aunts were crushed under the peach . i liked this book as it gives us a lesson of hope and the theme of this book is hope and friendship . i think everyone shoul read this book as it is awesome and you will enjoy .
8/10 (2016-10-23)







joanne from australia
james and the giant peach is the best!
10/10 (2016-10-18)







julia  from america
such an original, hilarious read. though it does have some words that are mild for younger viewers, and can make you fall asleep at parts. overall this book is fantastic. 10/10 would recommend!!! :)
10/10 (2016-10-18)







selena from china
best read ever!!!
10/10 (2016-08-26)







santrupth shetty from india
this book is worth reading for young children. i have really enjoyed reading it. this is an adventure and it speaks about facing obstacles with courage. i also recommend other children to read this book.
10/10 (2016-08-15)







angus from austrailia
james and the giant peach is a very good fairytale which is good for young children. it is very interesting and i would recommend this to anyone which is interested into fairy tales and this book has very easy language. it is a good book and i would recommend it to anyone who wants a quick read. bad luck that james is so miserable.
10/10 (2016-05-09)







lisa from united states of america
i loved it! it was funny. plus i love fictional books. any book that has a character who goes on an adventure with friends and has a happily ever after is a book i love!
10/10 (2016-04-15)







harsh from india
i am jagrut's brother and i liked it alot and i have performed an activity on it. this book is going be a thumbs up.
10/10 (2016-02-15)







jagrut from india
it was an amazing book by roald dahl. i would recommend this book to other children.
10/10 (2016-02-13)







devanshi from india 
it is the best book i have ever read.
10/10 (2016-02-10)







zoha taj from pakistan
this is the best read ever!
8/10 (2016-01-30)







anoushka from india
this is an awesome and amazing novel. very charming and interesting. :-) it's very fascinating. the made the book good to great and funny. it's too sad the roald dahl passed away soon. just wanted to tell him that we love you now too!!! i love all his books <3
9/10 (2016-01-29)







emmanuel from india
best book by the best author.
10/10 (2016-01-27)







sabriyah from england
it was one of the best books i had ever read. i have to give it a double thumbs up for it's so good. poor little james is so miserable and i would just like him to stay where i live. it's too disappointing that roald dahl died too soon. i've already got the whole collection of roald dahl except for dirty beasts and revolting rhymes. i have to say, the whole story is right in my head. i would just have to go running out of those gates if i were james henry trotter myself. anyway, if roald was still alive i would have wanted to give him a gift made out of pure gold. his books are stupendous, brilliant, marvellous,superb. amazing!!!
10/10 (2015-12-30)







kiara from england
amazing book!! seriously becuz it is written by the best author ever!!!! i think it was a very interesting story!!
10/10 (2015-07-19)







ali from pakistan
it's a very good book for children. a must read.
10/10 (2015-04-16)







alina from england
the best book ever!
10/10 (2015-04-10)







haleemah from england
poor james, i feel so sorry for him because his mean ugly nasty aunties be mean and treat him like nothing but the book is really good. i think people should read it they would enjoy.
8/10 (2015-02-05)







sneha pandiyan from india
as dahl's novel begins, the reader is introduced to james, a young boy who is orphaned when his parents are eaten by a rhinoceros. james is consequently sent to live with his two aunts, aunt sponge and aunt spiker. these relatives are very cruel to him, and he is incredibly lonely, since he has no friends yet longs to play with children his own age. but on one particularly hard day, james's luck changes: an old man appears in the backyard garden and offers james a packet of magical green objects. if james follows a set of specific instructions (says the old man), something spectacular will happen. james is very excited, but as he runs back to his house to execute the instructions, he trips and the magical green objects burrow into the ground. james is incredibly upset, but as he begins to resume his chores, he hears his aunts shouting. james soon discovers the source of the commotion: a peach has begun to grow on a top branch of a previously barren peach tree. as the three of them watch, the peach becomes larger and larger, until it is bigger than the aunts' entire house. seeking to capitalize on this strange event, aunt sponge and aunt spiker set up a fence and begin charging admission to see the peach. they forbid james from interfering, fearing that he will ruin their profit-making scheme. the night after the first day of visitors, james sneaks out of the house to visit the peach. he sees a hole at the bottom of the peach, and he realizes that this hole is the opening to a tunnel. he begins to crawl through, and he eventually enters the hollow peach pit at the center of the fruit. when james enters the pit's inner chamber, he meets an odd assortment of creatures, who initially intimidate him: miss spider, centipede, earthworm, old-green-grasshopper, and others. the next day james and his new companions begin their journey away from aunt sponge and aunt spiker. centipede cuts the peach away from its tree and the peach begins to roll, flattening everything in its way - including aunt sponge and aunt spiker, who are killed. the peach then rolls off of a cliff several miles away and lands in the atlantic ocean. from this point forward, james and his friends face a series of obstacles. they must escape attacking sharks, evade the cloud-men and their anger, and settle internal disputes. james asserts himself as the leader and frequently saves the day. when sharks attack, he has his companions fasten ropes to nearby seagulls, then to the stem of the peach, the peach rises out of the water and begins flying through the air. after one day of flying, james and his friends realize that they have flown across the entire atlantic - they can now see new york city below them. they begin to cut the seagull strings one-by-one, when suddenly a passenger plane flies above them and cuts all of the lines at once. their gradual descent into the city is ruined and they begin to sink rapidly. everyone holds on for dear life, thinking death is imminent, but they land safely on the pinnacle of the empire state building. after explaining their situation to the new york city policemen and firemen, james and his friends are brought to street level and are welcomed lavishly. the city throws a parade in their honor, and by the end of the parade the entire peach has been eaten by local children, who want to taste the giant fruit. after the parade, james and his friends live happily ever after. the remaining peach pit is set up as a monument in central park, and james lives inside of it. so many children visit him, hoping to hear his story, that he decides to write a book about the journey. the book that he wrote is the book that the reader has just read.
9/10 (2015-01-06)







preethi from india
amazing book, just loved it. watch the book trailer, if you want to know the gist of the book https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sgcjqdz6l_u
10/10 (2014-11-03)







matthew from united kingdom 
it was amazing because the insects made it funny.
10/10 (2014-11-01)







yashu from india
it was excellent. roald dahl is a great author.
10/10 (2014-08-31)







maria from england
the book is obviously going to recieve a thumbs up from me due to its originality and because it was written by roald dahl who is an excellent author and it is such a shame that he only wrote a limited amount of books in his lifetime, he died too soon! :( anyway enough of that, in my opinion the book was a great success and i loved it, love it, and will carry on loving it. (past, present, future and nobody can do anything about it,:b).
10/10 (2012-03-01)









9.7/10 from 83 reviews

all roald dahl reviews

james and the giant peach 
the twits 
revolting rhymes 
dirty beasts 
charlie and the chocolate factory 
charlie and the great glass elevator‏ 
the bfg 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




prince of thorns by mark lawrence
(broken empire: book 1)





prince of thorns by mark lawrence is a book steeped in controversy - a book that seems to have divided the science fiction and fantasy community with regards to what is acceptable for people to like and enjoy. the book has been out for a couple of years already, the arguments for various perspectives have already been well established, but i hope i can still add something new to the conversation.prince of thorns is a confronting story, deliberately so, that follows a 13 year old boy named jorg who leads a gang of marauders as they pillage their way across the countryside. jorg is a sociopath, a willing participant, and readers get to experience the world through his damaged viewpoint. readers get to see, through jorg's eyes, the cold apathy with which he dispatches his enemies. they get to see jorg's uncaring reminiscence of when he raped those farm girls before setting them on fire. he knows he probably should care or feel bad about the things that he is doing, but he doesn't. and that is discomforting.i think it is easy to understand why people do not like this book, so i think the better question would be what is it that people like about this book? one aspect is the writing - the prose is just so effective at transporting you away and putting you directly in jorg's head. it is vivid, it is visceral, and it feels so real. the prose really allows you to escape, to live as someone else, and even though that someone else is an irredeemable psychopath, the effortless escape is just so appealing to a lot of people. another aspect is the setting - a far future feudal society where we get a glimpse of what our world might become if we managed to trigger a nuclear singularity. this type of setting sparks a great deal of interest for a lot of people - we just love postulations about post apocalyptic worlds.they are just two aspects, but they don't completely cover why i liked the book so much. for me, it was all about jorg - not my empathy for him, but my fascination with him. lawrence gives us a damaged boy doing horrible things in a damaged world, and i want to explore the how and the why. is jorg's psyche something he was born with, or was it forged by the environment he lived in, and the horrific events he was forced to endure. does he have the capacity for growth or has that been shattered. could he ever recover from the damage inflicted, and if he could, would he even want to? the thorns have been embedded deep within jorg's body and mind, they have festered and those that remain continue to fester, and whether or not they ever get completely extracted, the damage may just be irreparable.prince of thorns tells the story of a young boy broken by the depravity of humanity. it wasn't a fun story for me to read, and yet i still enjoyed it to the very end. i don't think prince of thorns is for everyone, but that is another aspect i like about the book - it dares to take a chance and shine a light on some pretty confronting stuff. it generates discussion wherever it is read, and the genre grows because of this discussion. prince of thorns is an important milestone in the modern fantasy landscape.ryan lawler, 9/10--dubbed ‘the british answer to george r. r. martin’s a game of thrones’, there’s more than a little of a song of ice and fire in debutant mark lawrence’s book. the prince of thorns is a dark story that follows the path of a ruthless thirteen year old prince who was irreparably scarred by the murder of his mother and brother at a young age. prince honorous jorg ancrath has now dedicated his life to revenge, seeking to exact a grisly death on their killer count renar.a considerable part of what gives lawrence’s story such impact is the age of his violent protagonist. at thirteen, the darkness that controls jorg is a truly horrific - yet captivating - power to behold. it’s easy to forget the few summers the prince has lived in the face of his sharp mind and sharper sword, but lawrence ensures you’re reminded of it just often enough to keep the horror current – whether by noting jorg’s stature, an offhand comment made by one of his comrades or during the more revealing flashbacks that remind us how recently his luxurious court life vanished.initially there’s a worry that this leading lad will be an irritating, snobby little royal who dishes out orders to his followers simply because his lineage decrees he can. this preconception is quickly banished however in the face of a prince who’s as indistinguishable from, and as road-trodden as the battle-hardened men he rides with. obsessed with ‘winning the game’, jorg has no qualms about sacrificing any or all of his pieces, the way in which he does so occurring so momentarily that it’s often easy to miss. this attitude is reflected in lawrence’s clipped writing style, the author wasting as little time lamenting death as jorg does.lawrence’s style and pacing is spot on here, the flashbacks and pre-chapter anecdotes adding much needed context and light relief to the dark tale. the gradual disclosure of the big picture, exposing jorg’s part as a pawn in the larger game of kings and kingdoms, is also artfully done, creating a number of spine-tingling moments that really accentuate the prince’s place in the grander scheme.the pacing falters somewhat on the crew’s venture into the gorge of leucrota, and jorg’s penchant for good luck will feel a little too convenient a little too often for some, but these are small gripes in a book that really is very difficult to put down.a dark debut with a lot of clout, prince of thorns is fantastic tale of one boy’s fight for control in a world threatening to engulf him.alice wybrew, 9/109/10 a dark debut with a lot of clout.


buy on amazon

reviews by ryan lawler and alice wybrew
7 positive reader review(s) for prince of thorns
18 positive reader review(s) in total for the broken empire series







prince of thorns reader reviews

nana from nig
beautiful book, unique characters, great humor, jorg is something...
10/10 (2018-11-07)







kiana from united states
many things for an adventerous reader to adore about this series, and it's sister series "red queen's war": * the setting. the post apocalyptic world in which it takes place is its own character - subtly revealed, but integral, and interesting as hell. * the grit. this is not a series for vapid people. it's challenging, visceral. if you don't find value in exploring evil and its accompanying accoutraments, don't read it. * the moral dilemma. i felt guilty as my horrified disdain of jorgen morphed into fandom. and jalan, well, i admit i rooted for that weezle from the beginning. * the balance. i needed red queens war after broken empire. i didn't want to give the world up. but broken empire was exhausting. rqw was delightful. * the story. it's a page-turner - unique, and still a-tale-as-old-as-time. it unfolds in different domains - the physical, psychological, spiritual.
10/10 (2017-10-19)







andrew from australia
what amazes me is nobody mentions the great humour of this book. off beat, dark or sarcastic it adds another dimension most other authors do not bring to this genre. who cares about sentence construction, syntax or what words used, surely we read fiction especially fantasy for entertainment and mind journeys and fun. get off your high horses and just enjoy. mark lawrence has become a must read in my book. the new red sister is as good ;but with less of the original humour.
10/10 (2017-10-02)







blanche from france
prince of thorns follows the recent turn in fantasy that thrives on gritty realism and dark stories mixed with subverted yet very present fantasy tropes, and i believe it is about the only way it could be compared with martin's work, because otherwise they're two very different animals. we are introduced to jorg, prince of ancrath, damaged by the violent murder of his mother and brother while he watched helpless, held by the thorns of a hook briar, and his subsequent quest for revenge and power. hurt, perhaps irreversibly, jorg is prepared to do anything to achieve his goals and offers us dark, remorseless, awful acts all the while contemplating on the world. set in a post apocalyptic future returned to feudalism, pot is the story of a damaged youth in a damaged world that can't help but fascinate you, scare you, but mostly take you in the horrific and enthralling ride that is his adventure. it brushes many subjects but mainly offers a reflection on men, the very best and the very worst of what humanity is capable of producing, jorg himself epitomizing that subject. lawrence's prose is truly magnificent and flows smoothly, the building of suspense in two separate but equally interesting timelines brilliantly handled. it's a book that's disturbing because it deals with dark situations and problems one does not necessarily bear thinking about, but that, along with its fast paced sotryetlling and unique hero is the true force of this novel. i've read the whole trilogy and the dreadful acts and tantalising suspense only grow as the stakes get higher, and i would absolutely recommend those books to any fan -not only of fantasy or sf- but of a good story providing food for thought. i like to say this story is like playing with fire, it's fascinating and beautiful, but it will burn you. it's not a tale that leaves the reader unscathed (though that's more valid with the second and third instalment).
10/10 (2015-06-13)







bryn from uk
i wonder if marie (above) may have had problems with the writing because she's not a native speaker of english. lawrence is a master of the language, but it's certainly true that you could get left behind if you can't cope with powerful use of prose. i loved this book and the whole trilogy. it's a masterwork of the genre.
10/10 (2015-04-27)







smash from us
i picked this book up because i'm "patiently" waiting on the 6th asoif book and heard this book was like that series. i was disappointed in that it's absolutely nothing like asoif, however that was the only downside to it. jorg was a fascinating character with such a tragic back story it's not surprising he does the things he does. one of my favorite moments is the fight with the necromancers, as the author does a great job in describing the action through jorg's pov and from a character stand point it was the first time we really see him bothered by another characters' death. i would highly recommend this book of you don't mind the violence and rape. i just finished reading this novel today and plan on getting king of thorns within the next couple of days.
9/10 (2015-03-27)







ewan from britain
first things first, this book is not fantasy. it is very very slow revealing science fiction which uses fantasy tropes. but thats just pedantry. other than that it is truly brilliant and left me wanting the next book right now. the writing is visceral and fast paced and while none of the characters are exactly likeable they are very engrossing in their own way. the comparisons to asoiaf are very misleading in my opinion as it is nowhere near as involved in politics, war and is in no way on such an epic scale. there is only one pov after all. i can only imagine that people heard the main character mention "the game of thrones" and decided that that made it similar. i recommend this book to anyone with a love for violent fantasy and especially for anyone passionate about post apocalyptic fiction as the slow reveal of certain facts through out the novel make this especially tantalising.
8/10 (2012-03-01)









9.5/10 from 8 reviews

all mark lawrence reviews

book of the ancestor (book of the ancestor)
red sister (book of the ancestor #1)
grey sister (book of the ancestor #2)
bound (book of the ancestor #2.5)
holy sister (book of the ancestor #3)
broken empire (broken empire)
prince of thorns (broken empire: book 1)
king of thorns (broken empire: book 2)
emperor of thorns (broken empire: book 3)
one word kill (impossible times #1)
limited wish (impossible times #2)
dispel illusion (impossible times #3)
prince of fools (red queen's war #1)
the liar's key (red queen's war #2)
the wheel of osheim (red queen's war #3)
red queen's war (red queen\'s war)
the girl and the stars (the book of the ice: book 1)
the girl and the mountain (the book of the ice: book 2)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




swan song by robert mccammon






facing down an unprecedented malevolent enemy, the government responds with a nuclear attack. america as it was is gone forever, and now every citizen - from the president of the united states to the homeless on the streets of new york city - will fight for survival.in a wasteland born of rage and fear, populated by monstrous creatures and marauding armies, earth’s last survivors have been drawn into the final battle between good and evil, that will decide the fate of humanity: sister, who discovers a strange and transformative glass artefact in the destroyed manhattan streets… joshua hutchins, the pro wrestler who takes refuge from the nuclear fallout at a nebraska gas station… and swan, a young girl possessing special powers, who travels alongside josh to a missouri town where healing and recovery can begin with swan’s gifts. but the ancient force behind earth’s devastation is scouring the walking wounded for recruits for its relentless army, beginning with swan herself…once the decision had been made to incorporate a section devoted to dystopian fiction within fantasy book review there was no question in my mind that robert mccammon's swan song was a must-have. i first read the book around 7 years ago - i had just started a new job and a woman i worked with, alison, suggested i should read swan song. she said it was brilliant. and she was right, and i will always be thankful to her for recommending it.swan song is not perfect, it is clunky in parts and arguably overly long but i have now made my way through it twice (read through first time, listened to audiobook version second time) and have thoroughly enjoyed the journey both times. during the recent listen-through i headed over to mccammon's official website - http://www.robertmccammon.com - to find out a little more about the man behind the book and found on there commentary that backed up my own feelings; feelings that were so refreshingly honest (coming as they are in a world of self-aggrandisement) that i now like both the author and book even more for having read them. this is what i read on mccammon's biography page:"swan song is perhaps mccammon's most controversial novel, though the controversy is not so much over the subject matter as it is in the novel's technique. certainly the book is overlong and has some weakly drawn characterizations and a weakly portrayed romance. at the same time, it has an enormous number of characters whose actions are always interesting, much convincing detail, and great strokes of imagination. furthermore, mccammon is able to depict something as mundane as the passing of a horse with great conviction, and the positive far outweighs the negative. swan song tied with stephen king's misery for the 1988 bram stoker award for outstanding achievement in horror and dark fantasy and was the first of mccammon's books to be a new york times best-seller."and that, in a nutshell, says it all. in a book of over 850 pages i never once found myself bored, i progressed through the book at a steady pace, reading every day until it was finished. i looked forward to reading it each evening as i cared about the characters and was easily able to forgive the weaknesses (i think mccammon is being a little too hard on himself) as it was all just so damn enjoyable (i know that enjoyable may not be the right word to use when describing reading about the aftermath of a nuclear holocaust, maybe gripping would be more suitable). and the mention of stephen king is also interesting as swan song reads very much like a novel he could of written himself and has certain parallels with the stand. here again is a snippet from the official mccammon site:"like stephen king's the stand (1978), its literary model, swan song follows the lives and actions of a diverse group of characters in a post-holocaust world. king used a super-flu to kill most of the world's population, but he left buildings and civic infrastructure intact, and apart from the emergent supernatural elements, most of the problems faced by his characters are logistical: corpses must be removed, electricity must be restarted, and civil order must be maintained. mccammon went several steps further and destroyed his world with a limited nuclear war, and his characters face plagues, devastation, radiation injuries and sicknesses, declining food and fuel rations, nuclear winters, and of course, each other."i love both books and there is a good chance that others will too. if the stand worked for you (review on this book coming soon) then the likelihood is the swan song will too. and vice-versa.in swan song robert mccammon hits with far greater frequency than he misses and the supernatural elements are expertly woven into what is, quite naturally, a rather oppressive story. so if you like post-apocalyptic/dystopian fiction and/or like stephen king or books of that ilk then please, please give swan song a read, you will not regret it. the book has also recently become available in both kindle and audiobook format (very well read by tom stechschulte) and the latter became my friend and companion on my daily commute.i found it impossible not to like swan song, even more so after discovering that the author was so open and honest, and i am delighted to feature it on fantasy book review.10/10 always interesting, a must for fans of dystopian fiction. 


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
30 positive reader review(s) for swan song







swan song reader reviews

suzanne  from usa
swan song is one of there best books i have ever read. i have read hundreds. i could not put it down, i even read it at stop lights. read it every spare minute i had and even snuck in reads at work.
10/10 (2021-01-03)







jessica from united states
read this book for school and book club and i loved it. i really am not a fan of horror or dystopia or any stories of the sort yet i really did love this book. it pulls you in and gets you involved with each perspective and how the all come together. in book club, i heard from everyone that while it was a little explicit, it was a favorite of theirs as well and they loved the storyline. one person even said they loved the fact that it could lead to political discussions without fighting being involved and it leading to a debate. overall, it really is a great book and now one of my favorites!
10/10 (2020-02-04)







ifraah from oman
i love this book, it's my first horror book and first book by robert mccammon. i want to read more of his books.
10/10 (2019-10-25)







darren from ireland
i love this book, a fantastic writer.
10/10 (2019-10-21)







sandy from united states
read this book many years ago... absolutely loved it!!! i wish they would make this into a movie.. can't understand why they never did.
10/10 (2019-07-02)







cory from usa
excellent. best book i have ever read! and i have read hundreds.
10/10 (2019-06-26)







elaine from uk
amazing book. i read it first in 1988 whilst on holiday and have probably read it half a dozen times since. thankyou robert for your imagination and skill.
10/10 (2019-05-20)







joe from u.s.a
my fav book by far as far as fantasy goes. i disagree with the constant s. king comparisions. s. king is a boring writer and i had to make myself read or finish every book i ever started. r. mac on the other hand tells a story where the time flies by due to the pacing and methods he uses. mystery walk is great and wolf's hour as well. swan song does have a few flaws but only after i have read it 10 times and 25 years have passed since i first read it as a teen.
10/10 (2019-05-08)







mscee from united states
robert r. mccammon's book swan song spoils any other reading of a of a nuclear war aftermath you have or will ever read. you will be comparing the narrative of this book, once you read it, to any other as lacking in something. i could only wish the author take up the setting again, this time with new characters of dark fantasy...elves, trolls, nymphs, etc... and man. i believe he could out-write the "shannara" series.
10/10 (2019-02-18)







don from usa
mccammon has written king under the table. swan song is evidence of it. while king babbles and can't get to the point for about 50 pages, mccammon stays with the point on every page. mccammon consistently moves the story forward at a fast pace and his characters, especially in swan song, are well developed. what i loved best about swan song is the unpredictable plot as the story carries the reader through a world of terrible chaos. unputdownable read. kick-ass novel !
10/10 (2019-02-17)







ashley  from uk 
easily the most entertaining book i have ever read. miles better than stephen kings the stand. the epic story of swan song moves along at a fast pace. mccammon writing style is that he is able to say more about a character in a paragraph than king could in 3 chapters. i have read this book about 10 times over the last 30 years and i know i will start reading it again very soon.
10/10 (2019-01-01)







carlos from usa
best book i ever read. made stephen king's the stand look like a walk in the park. this story grips from the get go. read it five time and listened to the audio book three times. they really need to make a high quality movie out of this. i'm very surprised that the churches haven't done this yet.
10/10 (2018-10-02)







lisa from canada
i would give it a 12 out of 10 if i could. if you could only read one book about the apocalypse this should be it. i have read every post apocalypse book i could get my hands on, old ones, new ones, kindle only ones. nothing compares to swan song. the hardest part of reading swan song was the knowledge that there was no book to follow. but it didn't need one. thank you robert, it is the best book i ever read, and about every 5 years i pick it up ad read it again.... where is the movie ???
10/10 (2018-02-13)







mike from england
like many others, this is one of the best books i have ever read, i have recommended it to may people and all have loved it as well.
10/10 (2018-01-11)







robert from united states
this book is so good i've read it four time's!
10/10 (2018-01-07)







randall from australia
if i could only read just one book for the rest of my life i would choose swan song, without a doubt. which is no small feat considering how many books i've fallen in love with since i first started reading. there is just something so undeniably magical about mccammon's writing and storytelling ablility. this is a book that i would recommend everyone read (even those who don't typically like the horror genre). you won't regret it 😁
10/10 (2017-12-24)







janet from usa
one of my top favorite books of all time. favorite horror book, for sure. made my skin crawl. very scary.
10/10 (2017-10-18)







debbie from usa
fantastic book. you're right if you read king's the stand you will find this, in my opinion, even better. it is long but never boring, and hard to put down once you start. i prefer hardback books so went to a book store years ago for them to try and order and was told never published that way and was disappointed until i found that there was a hardback edition on ebay. yeah! i had to have it and won. it was well worth it. the more time that passes people are finding this book and how good it is. mccammon makes his characters real as you follow their attempts to survive, while others to control. then there is swan, a very special girl, and their attempts to find her and protect her from those who want her for the wrong reasons. why? you need to read this book to find out! if you liked the stand you will love this book!
10/10 (2017-10-04)







sharon from usa
i first read this book about 20 years ago after my sister read it. i never gave the book back and it is one of the very few books i've kept in physical copy (rest have transitioned to kindle or just donated). it is hands down my favorite book i've read. i'm sure i have re read the book about 10 times and enjoy reading over favorite portions of the book. it is a great, compelling read.
10/10 (2017-10-02)







steve from australia
one of the best books i have ever read.
10/10 (2017-09-19)







antony from kenya
here is a vivid and scary narrative of a nuclear war aftermath
9/10 (2017-08-10)







kathryn from united states 
the characters are unique and vivid. i've never cared so much for fictional characters. joshua, sister, swan, paul, leona, and artie were such lovable characters. the best post apocalyptic book i have read, and i've read a ton.
10/10 (2017-06-06)







frances from united states
first read this in 1987. reread this in the new scheme of things in the world. it was scarier than ever. mccammon has a wonderful sense of people, the best and worst in us all. this should be made into a movie! movies are the most graphic way to picture the story for those who no longer read for enjoyment and enlightenment. we really need to hear his message, more than once! thank you, robert mc cammon!
10/10 (2017-04-22)







carolina from arizona
swan song is the vest book i read in my life.
10/10 (2016-04-24)







bill from new york/florida 
my favorite book. i've read it 6 times. recommended it numerous times, to great approval. should have been a movie or mini series already. great characters ! think i'll start turning the pages for a 7th time now. love it! mccammon is so underrated.
10/10 (2016-02-07)







pearl from us
the first half of the first chapter was a bit fast moving to disaster, but then disasters rarely move at a snails pace because then there's time to react, ok, given as a logical point. i thought more description and more detail could have brought more clarity to the situation. i just plowed through the first chapter and then afterwards, when circumstance and the major players came into focus and the story line took on a more linear projection, it got more than interesting, it got downright riveting! i could not put down this book, do not, not, read this book before you have to sleep because you will end up staying up way longer than you decently should have! i can't believe no one ever made a movie of this book because the visions that mccammon puts into your head are astounding and sometimes beautiful. the range of emotions and critical thought are well balanced. many books i read after that paled in comparison. this in the top ten of my favorite books of all time. i just purchased a new copy, because i keep giving them away, and i will have read it for the fourth time. i just made a deal with my grown up daughter, i will read "pride and prejudice" by jane austen ugg, but she has to read robert mccammon's " swan song". i know she'll thank me later!
10/10 (2015-11-06)







eve from usa
loved this book. yes there are some weak points. such as when josh decides to proceed inside k-mart even after he knows alvin might be around. i could not stop, and yes i cried many times. loved this book, this and the stand - must reads.
10/10 (2015-06-20)







jackie from indiana
definitely my all time favorite book, for many years! it's captivating, and definitely a book i can't put down, no matter how many times i read it. amazing story line, enthralling characters, and makes you feel like you are a part of the story not just a reader. you will run the full gamut of emotions with this one! 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







daniel from new york
swan song is a story about the survivors of a nuclear holocaust that have to make sense and exist in this colorless new world they are left with. here they must contend with fallout, plagues, famine, and each other. some people cling to their humanity despite the hardships it brings, where others shed theirs like a second skin in favor of power and comfort. 'the man with the scarlet eye', a very dark other worldly being, courts the less scrupulous survivors, bringing them closer to darkness and destruction, and crushes any who try to bring meaning and hope back to the world. two such threats he finds at the hands of a bag lady named sister and a child called swan. sister brings comfort with a magic piece of glass and swan can bring life back to the land with a touch. armies form as many wish to destroy them and many would lay down their lives for them.
i first read this book back in 1988 and have read through it numerous times, worn through multiple copies, and gifted even more. to this day, if i were to pick up that book, i know that not long after i have begun turning pages i will have become invested in these wonderful characters again. a trained critic or seasoned author may find a few faults in technique here or there, but just as a reader, i found myself too busy enjoying the book to notice. mccammon doesn't pull punches with this gritty world he shows us, so if you still have a soul, you might need a dry handkerchief.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







angie from carlisle
this had to be my all time favourite book, i loved how the story gripped you from the beginning and that was it, my imagination took me on every journey and every character in the book! sometimes i had to put it down as i'd got myself that scared but then had to pick it back up straight away to see what happened next. i loved it and i'm sure you will too!
10/10 (2012-03-01)









10/10 from 31 reviews

all robert mccammon reviews

boy's life 
swan song 
the wolf's hour 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the stand by stephen king






i don’t know why it's taken me so long to reread the stand. certainly (unlike say the tommyknockers or misery) it isn’t because i didn’t enjoy it first time around, nor is it, despite its definitely extended length, because i found its beginning long winded or hard to get into. for whatever reason it’s been quite literally half a lifetime since i first read the stand so; both due to my recent rediscovery of a love of mr. king’s writing, and the far greater prevalence of apocalyptic and post-apocalyptic books today it was definitely time to give it another look.even as a premise, the stand is rather unique. a super flu virus, dubbed captain trips by its sufferers is released across america which wipes out more than 99% of the population, despite increasingly draconian efforts by the us government to cover up the fact: introduce martial law to a disintegrating social order and even infect other countries with strains of the virus too.what is truly unique however, is all of this is dealt with summarily in less than a week of real time, and less than twelve hours of the book’s monstrous 46 hour length. this is because after king has set the stage the real conflict begins. through prophetic dreams some survivors are led to mother abigail, a saintly 108 year old christian woman who speaks for god and the forces of good. others however are led to randall flagg, the dark man, a creature whose been walking the highways of america in rundown cowboy boots, waiting for its hour to come around at last and the chance to forge a new society of torture and tyranny. so the stage is set for a confrontation of good and evil of quite literally biblical proportions, a confrontation which will lead to one simple moment, the stand.one of the most astounding things about the stand is the fact noted by floresiensis, that returning to king as a more experienced reader i realize just how carefully crafted the book is, especially since king was able to restore the 400 pages cut from the original edition for space reasons.many authors have a distinctive writing style all their own, with their own quirks, strengths and weaknesses. king however has that rare gift of being able to shift his style, his use of language, even his scene pacing to evoke the mood he’s trying to conjure. from long deserted views of the american wasteland both pre and post virus, to the darkly mysterious depiction of randall flagg, to the series of short punchy vignettes which illustrate nasty little details of the spread of captain trips and the breakdown of society. king actually resembles his own creation pennywise the clown, able to shift his form to give us new senses of fear wonder or mystery as occasion demands, popping up with unexpected surprises, or teasing out the pace or detail of a specific scene to evoke a certain note or colour, from the horrific terror of the new york lincoln tunnel filled with cars and dead bodies, to the grotesquely comic idea of a glitzy hotel and famous casino turned into the seat for a brutal dictatorship.king’s shifting style also insures that we really get inside the heads of the books 10 or so major players, see them grow and change, and understand their struggles both before and after the virus, indeed it is quite astounding that in a book whose basic underlying cosmology is so blatantly black and white, king creates such a range of characters with complexities and journeys to travel, particularly since we don’t necessarily know where their journeys will take them. indeed from larry underwood, a successful rock singer battling with his own selfishness, to harold lauder, a frighteningly intelligent yet socially outcast sixteen year old trying to find his identity, to the trashcan man, a pitiable pyromaniac tormented by memories of bullying and abuse and his own love of fire, the stand features some truly complex and three dimensional villains and heroes many of whom, like the quietly strong stu redman, learning disabled tom cullen and his friend, deaf drifter nick andros are characters we come to truly love.one issue i did have with the book, is despite a few changes and updates to the setting for the 1990 uncut edition such as the insertion of president reagan, the book still retains the flavour of the 1970’s when it was originally written. of course minor anachronisms such as government protest groups and larry’s ability to instantly write a hit rock and roll song and hold hollywood pot parties are easy enough to overlook, however a more serious problem is the way gender affects characterisation and setting.my lady accused king in much of his early work of writing his female characters as “wet tissues,” and unfortunately the stand is no exception. franny goldsmith, the female character we see most of is a 21 year old student who finds out at the beginning of the book she is pregnant. i can understand king wishing to write a gentle female character, however in franny king overshoots gentle and lands squarely in childish. from her actually quite unpleasant dismissal of her baby’s father as “weak” despite the fact that all we see of him is his desire to marry fran and not run out on his child, and the way fran rather cattily rejects harold’s unrequited affection, not to mention fran’s constant habit of crying literally at the drop of her hat and of course her absolute obsession about having a baby (accidental though her pregnancy was), fran in general was a major disappointment.this would matter less if there were a range of female characters in the book, but with the exception of the semi mystical mother abigail most women we meet are emotionally needy and often dependent, indeed the closest thing we have to a competent or self sufficient female character is said to be a “women’s libber” and a lesbian (two terms which king implies are synonymous).the book also features a large amount of subtle comments about women in its narration, from way men frequently describe their partners as of “my woman”, to stu redman’s rather disgusting assertion to the protective yet slimy harold that he wouldn’t need to force a woman because he “had his hand”, to even the narrator’s note that “some girls you could possess” when stu meets fran, not to mention the fact that the new society that is formed still seems pretty strict on gender lines as regards division of labour.while some of these assertions may be taken as in character, such as fran’s rather hysterical observation that she “needs a man” and that women’s liberation meant nothing in a post virus world, to mother abigail’s disapproval of girls who take sex as a playground, (an attitude we’d expect in a woman born in the 1880’s), the fact that these attitudes spread into narrative voice and the general constancy of them did increasingly take me out of the book and alienate me from some characters.of course this isn’t to say that all women, even in post-apocalyptic situations need to be hard as nails, any more than all men must show their sensitivity by constant emotional displays, but it is odd that a book which features such complexity in most of its characters so often falls down in depicting motivations when those characters had two x chromosomes.sadly it wasn’t even just the female characters who were affected by this. i was greatly disappointed in one scene when the likable and sensitive nick andros casually and rather brutally has sex with a psychotic and promiscuous girl almost on a whim, an action which seemed so out of character it was actively jarring, or when the otherwise straight up and honest stu redman rather casually talks about trips to brothels as though they were fairly standard nights out with the boys.yet not all the relationships in the book are problematic. larry’s struggle with his demons and how this struggle reflects upon the woman nadine cross’s strange quest was one of the high points of the book for me. indeed in nadine king manages to achieve something i would have assumed impossible, feature a plot concerning a corruption by use of lust which does not objectify lust as an end in itself, but instead is focused entirely upon the weaknesses of his characters, both nadine’s and those of her intended victims, especially given the genuinely touching relationship one of those victims already has, a relationship which you don’t want to see ruined.of course as a confrontation between good and evil, you always need a villain, and randall flagg is one of king’s best known and most compelling creations, an iconic drifter come provocateur with demonic origins, mysterious powers and a dark, blazing charisma. what is especially compelling about flagg is that even when you have read books like the dark tower and are aware who flagg is and what his origins are, he still retains that sense of mystery and compelling enigma that he had on first reading, much the way sauron remains a mysterious being however many times you reread lord of the rings; a feat which is doubly astounding given the views from flagg’s perspective we get during the book since usually seeing things from the villain’s point of view is death to suspense. the stand however shows its quality in one of the hallmarks of great fiction, even amazingly powerful demonic beings can’t see all ends, and flagg’s plans are just as prone to go awry as others are, especially given how fallible, human and complex his minions are.one thing i did find a little odd, was the book’s relationship to society. the us government are painted as the villains of the piece, not only releasing the super flu accidently but also going to increasingly more brutal lengths to cover up their blunders, even going as far as dispersing the virus world wide so that america can maintain plausible deniability. when mother abigail’s converts reach their destination a considerable time is spent debating the start of a representative government with political voting, in fighting and even the generally virtuous characters engaged in a little back room dealing to get their people in charge.with discourses from glen bateman, an opinionated professor of sociology we are often treated to rather oddly nuanced views about the troubles of government and organisation, and even a minor suggestion that flagg represents not just absolute evil but the structure and mystique of technological progress (a fact reinforced by flagg’s own brutal, totalitarian government). this strand of the book did feel a little aimless, particularly because other than a vague sense of “society is bad” king doesn’t seem to have come down with any certainty on any given position, indeed king himself noted that he needed an explosive game changer to bring the action back on track. of course not every book needs a political point, but with the concentration on themes of society and especially glen’s rather gloom laden discourses king probably should have been a little more definite, indeed this is one of the few areas the stand falls short of one of king’s later books as under the dome was far more definite with how its political anarchy intersected with its characters and setting.that being said king does manage something in the stand which i found extremely positive, he writes a book with not only an american setting, but one deeply rooted in american culture that does not alienate none american readers, indeed even though i found the political discussion a little aimless i did enjoy one section in which the survivors sing the american national anthem, because unlike the vast majority of writers king doesn’t rely on simply the invocation of “truth, justice and the american way”, to create an emotional scene, but simply works on what that particular thing means at this particular time to the people who have lost so much in a post-virus world, and since these are characters we care deeply about this is affecting for any reader, american or not.the book’s ending has received a huge amount of criticism over the years, many noting that it is literally a deus ex machina. one thing however which people levelling this criticism miss, is that the stand is unashamedly a book written in a christian context. several characters, especially mother abigail quite freely talk of messages from god and putting trust in god, and flagg is depicted as much as “satan’s imp” or the demon legion as something extra dimensional. whether one is a christian or not, there is no escaping the fact that the christian story; even considered as a story, has had a huge effect on the way western culture considers matters of good evil and power.the power of evil, as t. h. white’s arthur reminds us, is built on one simple premise, might makes right. the hero, the power of good is able to check that balance, to see the powers of good succeed despite lacking that might. the story of jesus is significant because at rock bottom it is the story of a man who had little power beyond his convictions, spoke out against the evils of his day and succeeded. yet jesus was not a mighty hercules, successful through superior strength of arms, nor even a wily odysseus, successful through trickery or cunning. jesus simply endured a horrific death, and showed his strength of conviction through that endurance; a conviction which was in the end rewarded.this idea of the hero overcoming might through endurance is one of the most beautiful tropes in fiction, since it gives us hope that eventually the powerless (which sadly these days includes most of the world’s population), will be shown to be virtuous in the end despite their lack of military, economic or other types of might, and the powerful, the selfish and yes the evil will not conquer forever. after all jesus himself mentions that it is the meek who shall inherit the earth, and the last who will be first.tolkien understood the power of this ideal when he wrote of a little hobbit carrying a heavy burden to mordor. rowling understood it when a boy wizard leapt before a murderous psychopath shouting a disarming charm, and king understood it when he called his own american lord of the rings “the stand”.the power of good in this case is not cunning or strength or a last minute power from inside, it is simply being there and enduring as evil ends.this is why for me the stand couldn’t have had any other ending and why i think king himself called the stand “a work of dark christianity”.likely how well the ending works for you will depend upon your appreciation of this trope, since certainly if your looking for almighty heroes who punch out the bad guys or turn the tables in one last desperate bit of ingenuity, or suddenly gain power from inside themselves to win out you’ll be disappointed. if however you can appreciate the idea that king works to, the very “stand” of the book’s title, you’ll find the ending a beautiful and terrible experience.my only minor niggle with the ending goes back to the books more serious issue, that of gender. all of the characters who take the stand are male, while the women are quite literally left at home to have babies. only one relationship is actually given time to be depicted in light of the ending (and that involves the childish fran). this is extremely disappointing since one extremely likable character is left hanging rather badly, and the “woman” of one of the men taking the stand is barely mentioned at all.indeed here king seems to subscribe to the decidedly old fashioned idea that for a woman having a baby pretty much equals happily ever after, and it’s sad to see more complex relationships fall off because of that.king has stated the stand is the book he’s most commonly asked about, even though he doesn’t believe it’s his best book, and this i don’t find surprising. i could likely write ten times this amount and still just scratch the surface, since the stand is at rock bottom a big book. not just because of its length, but because of its complexity. king’s shifting style and moments of horror and cynicism cover a huge range of visions, experiences and ideas. yes, some work better than others and some are rather dated, but there is no point being hung up on one issue or other when there is so much else to see.in this review i’ve tried to give a flavour of the salient points of the book, and yet there are a massive amount of things i’ve not touched on, tom cullen’s unique m-o-o-n speech, nick andros struggles as a deaf person, mother abigail’s trip into the desert, king’s rather pleasant depiction of most survivors (though by no means all), as comparatively decent people, the interesting mix of poverty and plenty in a post virus world where companionship is now the new scarcity, the horrific problems of a world where simple medical operations are impossible, and on and on.suffice it to say, if you call yourself any kind of reader of speculative fiction and can appreciate a truly rich and complex book, the stand is a must read. even if you’ve never read stephen king before, even if neither horror nor post-apocalyptic are your usual genre choice, you won’t be disappointed.dark, 9.3/10the stand, first published in 1978, was nominated for the world fantasy award in 1979. it was author stephen king's sixth work of fiction, a cross-over of epic fantasy, horror and dystopia which still remains one of the finest works of its type and the novel that king's legions of fans love most.the stand begins as the first days of the plague hits the us. then come the dreams, dark dreams that warn of the coming of the dark man, the apostate of death, his worn-down boot heels tramping the night roads, the warlord of the charnel house and prince of evil. his time is at hand and as his empire grows in the west so looms the apocalypse.i first read the stand in 1989 and i was completely blown away by it. the story, the characters, the tension - i had never read a book of its size so quickly. so, 23 years later i decided to read it again, finding that although i was able to remember certain parts, almost everything other than the memory of loving it had been forgotten. i found it interesting that king himself said, in the forward, that he doesn't think the stand is amongst his best books, but the one he is asked most questions about. i would agree with the author here as books like it, salem’s lot and the shining are better-written books but there is just something about the stand, and if the reader connects with it they are in for a thrilling ride.so what inspired king to kill of 99% of the world’s population? "i love to burn things up," he said. "it's the werewolf in me, i guess... the stand was particularly fulfilling, because there i got a chance to scrub the whole human race, and man, it was fun! ... much of the compulsive, driven feeling i had while i worked on the stand came from the vicarious thrill of imagining an entire entrenched social order destroyed in one stroke."i am now old enough, and have read enough across all the varying literature that is available to confidently state that king is an excellent, and by many underrated, author. to put is simply, he is one of the greatest storytellers of his generation who is only pigeon-holed as a schlock horror writer by those who haven’t actually read his work. and the stand is one of his best stories, not the best executed arguably but always compelling and never dull. and it's great to finally have it on kindle, and it can now be read by commuters without having to carry the weight about as the uncut edition weighs in around at 1,400 pages (bigger than all 3 lord of the rings books put together!) and for many will be the biggest book they have ever read, and as such it is not just an enjoyment but also an achievement to complete. by the end the story, which reaches biblical proportions, the reader will feel like they have been on a journey every bit as unforgettable as the characters themselves.the stand is king near the top of his game (and having recently read 11.22.63 i am delighted to say he is still producing). the writing is excellent, the imagery horrifying and the atmosphere hypnotic. after the first few pages you will either find yourself hooked or repelled… it’s that kind of book. but if you want to read one of the greatest examples of dystopian fiction with a healthy dose of fantasy thrown in then look no further.floresiensis, 9/1010/10 a cross-over of epic fantasy, horror and dystopia which still remains one of the finest works of its


buy on amazon

reviews by dark and floresiensis
11 positive reader review(s) for the stand







the stand reader reviews

harry tasias from greece
i have always been a steven king fan but i only read the stand the past month. in my opinion it is one of his best books together with salem's lot and the shining, great character development and a story that you never forget!!! yes, it has religious overtones but randall flagg, the main villian of the story is actually a demon. you can't beat an evil spirit with grenades and bazookas so the deus ex machina in the ending fits very well. i recommend it to anyone who wants an exciting, thrilling story with a lot of heart in it.
10/10 (2021-05-28)







tcoll from australia
***spoilers**** a lot of people criticise king's treatment of female characters in this book, as the main review did. this seems to totally forget two characters - dayna and mother abigail both had strength in buckets. moreover, stu's survival would have been impossible if dayna had cracked. mother abigail is pure strength - a survivor who has enough character and will to do her duty as she (and her god) sees it. additionally, people are pretty hard on fran. she was young, still in college, and pregnant when the end of the world came. ok, she wasn't the brightest spark in the book and some of her worries seemed very small, but when you consider the situation she was in (pregnant without any modern medicine to ensure the health of her and her baby) and the fact her hormones would have been going mad as well i think she did okay. even nadine plays such a pivotal and interesting role in beating rf. so while there might be less female characters, those that are there are pretty powerful in their own right.
7/10 (2020-07-13)







karlis from latvia
i eventually started to believe that stephen king was cranking books out too quickly, which meant, at least to my eyes, a drop in quality, but i read "the stand" when i was a teenager and was completely blown away by the sheer scope of the thing. to me, there are three true stephen king masterpieces -- "the stand," for which the subsequent miniseries was wonderful, "carrie," the movie for which i saw when i was 16 and which scared the bejesus out of me in the final scene, and "salem's lot," which made me sleep with the lights on for about two weeks. thank you for the author's very interesting review of "the stand." i guess i'll have to read the book again.
10/10 (2020-03-30)







michael from us
i was 11 years old the first time i read the stand. i had read several other stephen king books before, and was already on my way to becoming a stephen king superfan. his books have a tendency to start out slow and then pick up as you read. the opposite could be said for this one, as the flu is sprung on you practically from the start. king connects the dots exceptionally well when describing how the flu could spread from a military base in california first to a small town in texas then to the entire world. it seamlessly transitions from one character to another, giving insight into each one's strengths and liabilities. for instance, stewart redmond's loyalty for his friends, yet his feelings of not being strong enough to be a leader. the ending was a little blasé, but it makes sense in a way. the three men who went to las vegas brought god with them to a godless place. it was their faith that let god finally deal with flagg and his army. all in all, i would absolutely recommend this book to anyone who not only like horror and fantasy books, but just good stories. i'd just have to warn them about the length and recommend an ebook copy.
10/10 (2018-03-08)







august profumo from uk
the stand book review by august profumo part ii nick andros about five gang members were shadowing nick closely through a field of hay in the middle of the night between neighboring backyards, where he was looking for a place to stay. but, he had just worked for two months doing odd jobs and pumping recently. so, his wallet was bulging a little too prominently. so, they beat him up and stole it (although it was an extremely protracted struggle, i can’t remember the precise details. but, it was dramatic and well choreographed). hence, immediately after this nick hobbled, painfully, to visit the sheriff’s office. then he communicated what had transpired by writing it down with a mechanical pencil and a sheet of white paper. he included physical descriptions. but, one of the perpetrators was the sheriffs brother in law (because he matched nick’s description to a t with his telltale tattoo). thus, the sheriff didn’t lose sight of his duty to preserve justice. so, he helped nick even though his brother in law was certainly guilty: two of his friends who were gang members were identified by nick andros as accessories. so, they were apprehended, handcuffed and jailed. then the local doctor had to fix nick’s injured foot and toes. then capt. trips strikes. its first bout with the sheriff had laid him low for while. but, he recovered long enough to ask nick to fill in for him. since, nobody else was available to be deputized: all of the reserve units had been ordered away. thus, nick was sworn in (and then the sherriff died followed by his wife). so, nick ordered food from a local diner to supply food to the two inmates that shared a cell. but, both demanded to be freed before it struck because they saw many people (with tube necks), dropping like flies, everywhere. but, eventually they’ll die. but, nick survived. then nick becomes somewhat closer to the sheriff’s wife, before she died. then shortly later, the guilty brother in law returns to get even with nick after nearly everyone else had died of plague. so, he gouged one of nick’s eyes out (terribly). but, nick killed his assailant in self-defense. even though its duration was brief, it had two or three distinct phases while both men remained standing face to face without throwing any punches, kicking or using any weapons. it was an intense struggle similar to upright wrestling. i think he broke his neck. but, only nick survived (so, he probably had to bandage his wounded eye first). then he walked away slowly (and serenely) and day dreamed vividly of mother abigail with many rows of corn and fresh piping hot biscuits. broadcasting telepathically, this is mother abigail, please come to my farm, you all. we’ll have some fried chicken instead of turkey. in this age of modern conveniences, she still didn’t have a toilet. she had a privy with lime to make it smell sweet. when nick first met tom cullen, he didn’t understand what a deaf mute was: this concept comes to him like a lightning bolt, unexpectedly (but it took awhile before it registers). he doesn’t understand how to pantomime since he’s retarded; he shouldn’t be able to read nick’s writing or read his lips. but, technically, nick can read tom’s lips easily. so, there’s a magical understanding between them like telepathy in order to communicate. so, whenever, they conserve, it’s sheer fantasy. one time, tom saved nick by warning him about a tornado that had just started to reap havoc in their vicinity by ripping the barn’s top off. so, tom had to drag nick by the arm at the last instant to escape by jumping down and through the floors’ cellar door and remaining there until it had subsided, with the door bolted tightly shut. since, this was tom’s territory, he knew what to expect and that this type of danger occurred frequently and routinely. but, for nick this was his very first time, so he felt completely out of his element. thus, he was shocked and even concerned that that tom had it all figured out precisely, gamely, and eagerly. nick as a good party committee member had nominated tom cullen to be one of their three spies. tom was easy to hypnotize so that he was amenable to post hypnotize suggestions for him to remember an elaborate cover story: they drove him away because they didn’t want him to pollute their gene pool with retarded children, (i don’t know if it’d be plausible). then when the moon was full to return homeward bound. if hypnotism were realistic, this’d be tenable. only tom will survive, however, and the other two were killed: the judge didn’t make it into their territory. he made it across the first border checkpoint, but when he tries to circle around, he was finally apprehended (or seized) while crossing through oregon. but, the other girl (deana) had successfully infiltrated. thus, she had gleaned a lot of useful (spy type) information by sleeping with the evil vice-president in las vegas. (i can’t remember precisely how her cover had been blown, however.) thus, when flag finally caught her and tried to execute her, she jumped from his (interior) office window, landed on a shard of broken glass (on the floor) and cut her throat, committing suicide. she herself had been nominated because she had survived many ordeals with men drugging her in order to have sex. she had been held prisoner for perhaps six months, and there were about eight other girls in this harem. so, when the good party, which included harold, was passing by her jailers on the road (driving in a caravan in the opposite direction), there was a brief shoot out. then the good gang was finally able to win because this deana had had the presence of mind to arm herself. when a rapist was shot in the belly, he dropped his gun, and then it skirted her way on the truck bed’s floor. then she participated in shooting her own abductors, jailers and tormentors. the wild gunfire, which ensued, caused the girls’ deaths, but only two survived. both girls had to defend themselves: one using a gun but the other via a knife. but, when the moon was full, tom cullen returned homeward as planned. but, his instructions were to only travel at night and sleep during the day. but, flag was looking for him on the crossroads only during the day. thus, flag called off further searches after the first one had failed. because tom didn’t return the entire way home, he was strategically located next to stu (although unscripted). since, the good person’s mission was successful via a self-inflicted a-bomb blast by trashcan man that he had liberated in the nevada desert at nellis air force base. but, only stu survived, because he’d broken his leg while falling down an escarpment on the way. but, the a-bomb had killed everyone including his teammates. but, stu had to be safely out of its range in order to have survived—although i don’t know about the fallout. fortunately, tom was nearby, so kojak found him and brought him back. but, initially, kojak was with stu from the very beginning, rendering aid by hunting for game (rabbits) and giving it to stu. this included all of the essentials like fetching a stick in order to make a splint for his leg (it seemed to heal a little too fast), water, clothing, firewood, flint for the fire, etc. stu needed tom’s strength. since, it was winter and snow covered every square inch of ground, so they created a makeshift ski transport. but, its runners were stuck in the ice. thus, it’d only move, when all three of them were pulling together (in unison or in tandem) like a team of pack dogs with its tie ropes lashed securely. so, tom made it possible. but, when the weather improved, they traveled on foot and searched for a decent car: with its keys still in the ignition but with a dead battery (so it couldn’t be hotwired). but, they continued searching until they found one pointing downhill. so, stu was able to compression start its engine (since they found gas for it) by rolling it down the hill and then waiting for its speed to reach about twenty miles per hour (by looking at the speedometer). then, when its momentum was optimal, he popped the clutch and its engine fired up. although there was a dense cloud of smoke coming from under its hood that entered the cab, revoltingly, when it sputtered and almost died. so, stu had to pump on the gas pedal a few more times to get it going again and revving up its tachometer. so, for the first time in months, stu had serious transportation—and they zoomed down the road like heaven’s devils with roaring engines and flames pouring out of its dual exhaust pipes. then they make fair headway all the way home and they’re highly motivated to see how frannie’s child will be when he’s eventually born in a few weeks.
10/10 (2016-11-16)







august from usa
the stand book review by august profumo i had to read it twice: my first (ever novel) written by stephen king and my last. but, for the second i had to wait until i was in the proper mood. since, i knew that it was slightly longer—in fact, my version was uncut but the original was cut. moreover, the horror aspect was more pronounced. so, even though i spent approximately 100% of my total time reading, it still took about twelve full days. my memories of the entire first half were extraordinarily vague: confabulation prevailed. indeed, i thought that the plague’s cause was natural. but, rather the us military had instigated it even though it was prohibited. but, somehow, it had inadvertently escaped (or leaked) from a top secret testing facility. but, the government and the us military continued to be evasive. hence, newspapers and broadcasting stations were forced to lie and cover-up the truth under threats of death by armed military guards. so, thousands of citizens were summarily executed by the army with machine guns, and nearly everyone else died of the plague (known as mr. trips), except for a few rugged individualists. but, after their ordeal, (perhaps it was three months); they had to make their stand (that is for the genuine apocalypse in the future and they share the same dreams: good or evil). i thought that the initial plague victim’s car had crashed into a gas station smashing the pumps (dramatically) and that they had instantly exploded (with a dazzling flash of pyrotechnics). but, it was actually turned off at the last second by the attendant, stu redman: the stand’s future hero. when it finally struck; however, it was only going about ten miles per hour. so, that’s what stopped its momentum. in fact, the driver survived the crash itself, but his family was in the back seats. then the driver died of the plague after asking stu, who had investigated the occupant on foot, if his wife and infant son were still ok. so, stu lied and said that they were ok. then the driver died. but, he had narrowly escaped from a top secret army plague testing center, where he was stationed with his wife (and son) and that’s where it had originated: it had accidently leaked from a hermetically sealed lab room with test tubes. but, this was the primary reason for it spreading rampantly, out of control. or, i thought that the beginning events occurred at the end. for example, i thought that flag could levitate (or fly) about a foot off the ground. but, at the end, he could only manage a quarter inch or so. he was the leader of the evil gang based in las vegas. my favorite characters were larry underwood (former rock star, and writer of “baby, can you dig your man?”), harold lauder (with his fake smile due to losing his beloved frannie goldsmith to stewart redman who he loathed and wished was dead, who loved payday candy bars with peanuts), nick andros (the deaf mute and tom’s best friend), tom cullen (the retarded man) and nadine cross (flag’s reluctant wife and harold lauder’s confidant on the “good” side, where they plant a bomb to kill a few including nick). the good party was led by mother abigail based out of denver colorado (but they had to move there from back east). she was the one that everybody had dreamed of before meeting her—with many rows of corn and homemade biscuits. (she fried three chickens for her guests, but her favorite food was planter’s peanuts with lots of salt). she explained how to deal with the evil gang based in las vegas by sending only four persons—larry underwood, stuart redman, ralph, and glen. she said that that was god’s will after communing (with him) via a vision after spending about three weeks outside without food or water. harold lauder when frannie goldsmith’s was burying her father in her backyard, harold drove by with his new car, which he had requisitioned from their home town dealership. harold was a neighbor, but his sister was a good friend of frannie. then he told frannie that he’d come by later after she had finished. then he drove to his house and started typing noisily on his typewriter—and she heard it, as if it were nearer. according to frannie, harold was a slightly portly teenager, with acne, but he loved payday candy bars with peanuts. he considered himself a talented literacy artist, but nobody else did. someday, he’ll write his own diary in order to compete with frannie. but, even though larry underwood will find it hidden under a loose masonry stone inside harold’s homemade chimney, he didn’t read it. there wasn’t enough time. after ms. goldsmith finished burying her father, she heard harold trying to mow his front lawn with a john deer tractor setup. but, as she walks closer, she saw that harold was in fact crying, with tears streaming down his face, from his own deaths in his own family, including his sister, mother and father. the freshly mowed grass is in the back of the truck and he’s about half way finished, as he zig zags, back and forth across his old front yard. then when frannie arrived, she said hello. then he stopped crying immediately and he said that he could feel empathy with her tears over burying her father. then frannie told harold that she wants to visit a government disease treatment center nearby, where they could learn more about what had happened in that regard. so, harold agreed. then harold takes charge of her in grand fashion afterward and he’s extremely pleased with his new role: since, he’s quite dashing for a change. but, first, they had to plan by provisioning themselves with all of the essentials like food, water, clothing, gas and pistols. this included teaching frannie how to ride a small two stroke motorcycle (that is a honda or yamaha). so, this takes a while before she’s officially ready, without crashing that many times before seriously injuring herself. before, departing, however, harold had the presence of mind to leave a message behind on a barn top that told their names, the date and their destination. he had to paint it there in large enough letters, so that it’d be seen readily from miles away. but, he also drew a small picture of a heart with his name and frannie’s as true love inside the barn somewhere (this will be seen by larry underwood). then when harold and frannie finally depart, they make fair headway to their destination. stewart redman when a military doctor came to kill redman in his hospital bed, since he was their prize guineas pig for experiments with mr. trips, stu had to kill him with a heavy chair. thus, it penetrated his heavy metal helmet, according to plan. then when he scampered away through his doorway (outside), he peered about briefly. but, all of the other base personnel were dead from plague. so, all he had do in order to escape (fully) was examine a wall-map that showed his location (that is you are here) relative to nearby exits of the mazelike building. so, once he espied it, it was a walk in the park. but, it took a while. then after acquiring a new wardrobe and a pair of shoes from the local stores, free: since nearly everyone else had died, nobody remained to operate the cash-registers and collect the usual fees. thus, equipped, he was finally able to amble down the road again (in relative comfort). then he finally, meets his new friend, ralph. first, he meets his (adopted) dog called kojak. then the dog leads, stu, to ralph who’s painting natural scenery with a lake in the background, with a dense forest for contrast. then they begin conversing and he gives him about six beers that were submerged in a lake. then they become steady friends (until ralph dies) and they camp out every day, and eat canned foods. ralph is a retired high school sociology teacher. they remained in same camp and talked. so, he said that most people had an innate latent talent to predict the future like plane fights crashes. for example, most of the planes that had crashed were nearly empty. so, somehow, they had avoided only the ones that crashed and the ones that didn’t crash were always full to capacity. so, he studied stuff like that. harold and frannie suddenly, harold and frannie are coming around the curb, riding their motor cycles. but, as soon as they see stu and ralph off to one side of the road, they pulled over and stopped, immediately, to investigate. harold tells them their destination, and that it was worth a gander. but, stu, explained not to waste any time. since, that’s where he had escaped. however, harold had insisted that they should go; he said that stu was lying. so, they ended up going all the way back there in order to prove that he was telling the truth. but, harold doubted it until the very end. when they finally arrived at the very room with the dead medical doctor that stu had to kill with a chair, then he admitted that stu was telling the truth. initially, harold had agreed to allow stu redman to travel with them, because stu had promised that he wasn’t interested in frannie, personally. but, he lied. harold had hoped to woo (or love) frannie for himself. but, stu ended up having sex with her after about a week after they had met—but their match was forged in heaven. but, one night harold decided to steal (stealthily) frannie’s diary from her knapsack while everyone else slept. then, afterward, he took it back to his tent to read with a flashlight (privately), but when he reads the page that says that frannie, loved stu, he became quite mad, and marked the page (inadvertently) with a payday candy bar smudge print. frannie will eventually notice (and recognize) it as harold’s. but, it’s fairly incriminating. so, at this time harold started to keep a diary like frannie. but, he dreamed only of killing stu redman. but, he wrote about it in graphic detail inside his diary. then he used a mirror in order to practice smiling, so that whenever he thought of killing stu redman, he wouldn’t give himself away. then they continued to travel together en route to meet mother abigail: their communal goal. larry underwood before meeting mother abigail, larry underwood had to escape via subway tunnels in new york, but it was too dark. he had a small butane cigarette lighter. so, he had to grope along blindly, feeling his way along one side of a walkway’s wall with his bare hands. but, sometimes his path was blocked with bodies that had been shot by the us army with machine guns. but, also, most of the others in that tunnel were plague victims that had fled in their cars. with a flick of his bic, that’s how he was able to see, casting blurred shadows on the walls around him. then one time he heard a strange noise that sounded like footsteps coming from behind him. but, it turned out to be his first girl friend that he had hooked up with after everyone else had died of the plague. that was three weeks after his mother had died and her rich husband had died of plague. but, even though larry kept yelling out asking (imploringly), if anyone else was following him, she didn’t say a word, remaining silent. so, larry nearly shot her (twice) by accident with his pistol and rifle. initially, they had become inadvertently separated by arguing over something ridiculous like how much water to carry vs. food, etc. so, somehow, they negotiated through without encountering any persons. then larry gets a motorcycle at a local store—since there’s plenty of free goods around—in order to travel generally from town to town. since otherwise, this was the first time that they didn’t travel on foot. in fact, most people acquired canned goods like chili beans or dinty moore beef stew in grocery stores or dried goods like peanuts, crackers, and strawberry jam, marmalade, slim jims and peanut butter. they get camping gear, clothing, boots etc. larry underwood was dreaming of flag when he got in a wreck with his harley davidson. but, fortunately, his new girl friend who had survived the plague wasn’t with him, since she had died of a drug overdose (that is sleeping pills). larry had discovered this when investigating their new tent: he found barbiturates in her purse and he wasn’t aware of her addiction. perhaps, that was the reason why they had argued previously. larry was intensely upset when she died because he was doting on her—and thus it was excruciatingly painful—because they were getting along so splendidly. because he injured his leg during his accident, he’s too frightened to travel using any other vehicle (or means of conveyance) including a bicycle. so, he has to forge ahead on foot, otherwise, he’ll dream of flag, the walking dud. but, his injuries weren’t serous: only one knee was injured while he took a spill on his harley, trying to negotiate around an old oak tree on the pavement. but, he didn’t make it. but, when he fell, he wasn’t wearing a helmet, but fortunately, he didn’t need to. thus, he had to apply first aid to himself with his own kit—with his uninjured hands. first, in order to stop the bleeding, he applies pressure with his bare bloody hands—and he’s feeling a fair amount of pain. however, because it’s moist, his hands keep slipping and it’s extremely tough to get a firm grip. then he had to make a makeshift tourniquet with his leather belt, which he loops around it, tightly. then he cleans his hands off with a wet towel. then he cleans it daily with soap, alcohol and mercurochrome as an antiseptic. then he applies fresh bandages, so he doesn’t get gangrene. then he drinks a bottle of jack daniels to kill the pain. then after a few more weeks of easy trekking (all of his wounds have healed, miraculously), larry was walking by nadine cross’s house where she’s staying with a ten year boy that she calls joe (who survived also). but, they left the house before he arrived. but, joe who always had his trusty knife with him was creeping up (silently on the balls of his feet) on larry through the foliage to see if he entered. but, nadine saw him just in time to stop him. she said, “no, joe! stop it!” that was the first time, however. but, larry as he walks by senses that someone is watching him from behind. but, he decides to stay in the area, since he needed food and shelter. so, he goes shopping for canned food at the local supermarket, and ends up with higher quality food than nadine had given joe. then he decides to stay in a house that’s relatively close to nadine’s, with her feral child and surrogate son, joe. moreover, due to shock, he’s mute. then in the middle of the night, joe, decides to visit larry’s camp again where he’s sleeping. then joe, armed with his knife, is waving it high above larry’s head a few times in circles (just missing his face), but he doesn’t strike. but, he’s notices that larry’s dinty moore canned stew was better than his nabisco crackers with cheese. but, he didn’t even touch a single crumb. then the next morning, nadine decides that she will meet larry and introduce joe. so, generally, they were amiable after agreeing to stay traveling together. so, they went to the atlantic ocean where joe becomes (increasingly, day by day) more humane. so, after reaching there, larry demands that as a priori condition (or token of) his continued goodwill that joe should get rid of his knife. so, joe throws his trusty knife, arcing high in the air, so that it lands in the ocean where it disappears forever in the breakers, with a splashing sound. but, as a surrogate, he’s given a beautiful (gibson twelve string classical) guitar. moreover, joe’s no longer mute; he talks to larry about his former rock star music days. then larry teaches him how to play—but joe seems to be a prodigy like mozart, with remarkable talent. but, afterward this facet of his personality isn’t even mentioned. when they ultimately meet, mother abigail, she knows his real name, but it wasn’t joe. she warned nadine cross to stay away from flag, if possible. but, she does get involved deeper in time, including some escapades with harold lauder. but, ultimately, she committed suicide by jumping out of her bedroom window, after causing harold to die by flag’s hand. since, he had had his side of the road side blocked with a stone abutment, but nadine’s side was free, when they departed together (driving motorcycles) from the good person’s camp, after setting off their bomb that killed at least 20 people including nick andros. but, stu and frannie had survived since she had had a premonition concerning it. but, she was too late to save nick. nadine was aware of what would happen to harold, before departing. afterward, he plummeted downward about 30 ft. consequently, when landing on a tree stump, he shattered both legs and his left collarbone broke. then nadine said that flag had barricaded harold’s side of the roadside. then harold took his colt 45 out from his holster and almost shot at nadine, but he knew if he did, that’d end everything. so, as long as she still lingered, entertainingly, she might attempt helping him out of his predicament. then after a while, harold finally realized that he should’ve shot her from the very beginning because she departed abruptly. after, this harold writes in his diary, about what had happened and he said that it was best writing that he had ever performed. then he signed it, hawk, which was a nick name that a good party coworker had given him while working on a volunteer burial (plague victim’s) detail. he was extremely proud of it. stu (et al) will find his wreck later.
10/10 (2016-11-08)







steve from uk
great book, read it years ago planning on rereading soon. excellently written, rilliantly realised characters, fabulous, good verses evil narrative. highly recommended!
10/10 (2016-10-13)







geoffrey from u.s.a.
stephen king's "the stand" is an epic in the classical sense of the word. it is huge, broad and all-encompassing, and addresses the national characteristics of americans, both weaknesses and strengths. it was the first king book which i ever read and remains my favorite. the novel is really two separate novels. of its roughly 1200 pages, the first 600 or so address the experiences of survivors of a humanly engineered world-wide plague ("blue," or "the superflu," or "tube neck," or "captain trips.") it only addresses what is going on in the united states, although we are given to understand that the rest of the world has suffered a similar fate. about .7 % (that is .007) of the world population and the population of the u.s. survives. the second part of the book is about an apocolyptic confrontation between the good people of the united states and the evil people. the good people, congregated in boulder, colorado--a western, moutainous state, for you brits--are led by a 108 year old black woman from nebraska. the bad people are led by a mysterious, satanic figure, whom the black woman calls, "satan's imp." king dwells much more on the satanic figure than on the grandmotherly woman, since the grandmother follows the instructions which she has perceived come from god (and they do), but she has no insight into what god's plan is. it is a lot clearer what the satanic figure's goals are: conquest, misery and death. the implication is that he is trying to establish satan's kingdom on earth. king draws detailed portraits of about six or seven characters, who are flawed but good-hearted and likeable. he spends hundreds of pages on these characters and their experiences. so, by the last quarter of the book, we are really hooked and rooting for them. most of them are not particularly religious, but their own personalities drive them to do good, at risk to themselves, and to defeat evil. it is only late in the story that some of the characters acknowledge that they are being directed by god. king's ability to draw convincing, entertaining and likeable characters (among the good guys) and convincing, entertaining and dislikeable characters among the bad guys, sets this book apart from most others. believable characterization is the hardest thing to write, i believe. and king manages to do this routinely. there are two versions of "the stand" available. the first version was cut at the behest of doubleday's marketing department, which determined how big a book doubleday could publish and still make a decent profit, based on the performance of king's previous five books. this was around 1972 at the beginning of king's career. when king's popularity took off, the marketing people at doubleday agreed to publish the book at approximately its original length. i have read both versions and, because i loved the book originally in its roughly 800 page form, i loved it even more in its roughly 1200 page form. my guess is that if you are not picking up a used copy, you will only find the longer version available, although i cannot be certain about this.
10/10 (2016-08-02)







randy from australia
i loved 99.99% of this book. the reason why i said that, is because the ending isn't all that i would like it to be. what i noticed, is that steven king is a very very very good writer when the subject is realistic. the more far fetched the subject is, the worse the ending. that is to be expected with all steven kking books, but what surprised me, is that for a far fetched book, the ending isn't 100% crap. the only slip up that he made (spoiler alert!!!!!!! it will be safe to resume at the next perentaces) is by making the hand of god reach down, and kill randall flagg. (safe to resume) so over all, this book is 999 and 3/4 great. (it has a total lot 1000 pages). i would recommend this book to anyone who can read a 1,000 page book.
9/10 (2015-12-27)







anton from us
the characters in the stand are wonderfully realized. they stay with you. great story. one of my comfort books. want to be friends with all the good guys.
10/10 (2014-11-07)







niall from uk
one of my favorite books of all time. beautifully written with brilliant characters. a pleasure to read!
10/10 (2013-07-15)









9.6/10 from 12 reviews

all stephen king reviews

joyland (hard case crime series)
under the dome 
the dark tower series 
the talisman: road of trials 
11.22.63 
the stand 
it 
the eyes of the dragon 
needful things 
rose madder 
desperation 
the long walk 
gerald's game 
bag of bones 
duma key 
salem's lot 
firestarter 
the shining 
pet sematary 
the talisman (talisman: book 2)
black house (talisman: book 2)
the gunslinger (the dark tower series: book 1)
the drawing of the three (the dark tower series: book 2)
the waste lands (the dark tower series: book 3)
wizard and glass (the dark tower series: book 4)
the wind through the keyhole (the dark tower series: book 4.5)
wolves of the calla (the dark tower series: book 5)
song of susannah (the dark tower series: book 6)
the dark tower (the dark tower series: book 7)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the ocean at the end of the lane by neil gaiman






this may sound slightly biased, but i am always excited to read a neil gaiman story and as soon as i had read the prologue to this story i knew i was already hooked and looking forward to the adventure this book would take me on. the prologue itself serves as a reminder that some memories, however hidden, are not truly forgotten, but may just need a gentle reminder. in this story we follow the narrator down memory lane, to when the boy (the narrator) met the hempstocks and the events leading up and around that first meeting, which is all told from the perspective of a remarkable intelligent 7 year old.the boy, when we meet him, is fairly content. although seemingly friendless, he is happy with his new kitten fluffy and enjoying the fact that he can disappear into stories. his life changes when his parents have to start allowing lodgers to live in their home for the extra cash. through this he gets to meet the hempstocks, who apart from the animals, are the only named characters. after the boy’s family car is stolen he meets lettie hempstock who is a couple of years older than him, her mother mrs hempstock and old mrs hempstock, her grandmother. these three women remind me of the three fates: the maiden, the mother and the crone, who is some stories weave the fates of heroes. the hempstock’s are fascinating characters who give the boy a safe harbour without ever fully explaining anything to him, in his troubled times.and these are troubled times indeed for this boy who has to come to terms with the fact that monsters do exist. with the hempstock’s he knows they will believe him, whereas to his parents as grown ups he doesn’t feel he can tell them what is going on as they may not believe him. as a child shouldn’t everything be magical? even if that sometimes makes things terrifying? we all go through stages as children when we can believe there is a monster under our beds and feel comfort from having a hall light switched on as we go to sleep. the boy’s story is relatable on many levels and neil gaiman has managed to mix the fantastic with the mundane, so each line as written takes us one step further on not just the boy’s journey but our own.michelle herbert, 10/10--the ocean at the end of the lane is the latest novel from neil gaiman, and in my opinion one of his best. the blurb does this book a disservice by describing it a fable that will reshape modern fantasy (it doesn't and it's not trying to) - this book is a deeply personal reminiscence by the author, infused with fantastical and horrific elements, and what you get out of it as a reader depends entirely on how well you are able to connect with it.the story follows a 47 year old man who, in his escape from a funeral, finds himself exploring the old neighbourhood / farmlands where he grew up. as he travels down towards the house at the end of the lane, he starts reminiscing about his seven year old self, remembering what this journey down the lane used to feel like. when he sits by the pond at the end of the lane, the memories start flooding back - fantastical memories full of magical beings and hidden worlds, and lettie hempstock, the girl who thinks this pond is actually an ocean.it's hard to know where to start talking about a book like the ocean at the end of the lane. it is a tale that starts as a reminiscence of long lost childhood, but then it evolves into something akin to magic realism - the magic of childhood manifested as real magic. there is a depth of emotion here that is enhanced by magic - remembering the good times creates a sense of warmth and comfort, while remembering the bad times creates a sense of horror and dread. it is a story that is trying to make you feel something, but what you feel and depth to which you feel it will be completely unique to you.i know this review doesn't really tell you what the book is about, but i think to do so in more detail would spoil what is supposed to be an intimate trip down memory lane to a time when things were much more fantastical than what they are now. this a story that is simple on the surface, but with a depth of immersion that depends entirely on how much you connect with the story. my guess is that the further you are away from your childhood, be it through age or experience, the more you will connect with this story and the more you will fall in love with it.ryan lawler, 9.5/10--there are times when a reviewer simply needs to go have a troll through some of the other reviews in an effort to get an idea of what people are saying about a book. ‘the ocean at the end of the lane’ by neil gaiman seems to be reviewing rather well – receiving 4.4 stars out of 5 from 568 customer reviews on amazon.com and 4.25 out of 5 stars on goodreads with 19,969 ratings.which leaves me feeling a little like the odd-duck out, considering i didn’t feel the same obsessive-compulsive love for it that so many others have.billed as gaiman’s first adult book since ‘anansi boys’, i can see why some would be confused by the intended audience. while the book does revolve around a 7 year-old neil gaiman, the book is definitely a book of reminiscence, rather than a book for young adults or teenagers.i was disappointed with this book, though not for some of the reasons i have seen others voice. i rather liked the story, as it had the sense of childhood fantasy that is simply lost when you grow up. the characters were rich and there was no happy ending, all of which makes for a very realistic tale.however i simply feel that neil gaiman tried too hard to make this book a competitor for ‘the night circus’ or something similar. overly wordy sentences and paragraphs abound, in this book. the “authentic and compelling”-ness that so many reviewers are commenting on seems dumped on top, rather than grown from the bottom up, as if gaiman wanted to write a “genuine” book and therefore tried so hard to write one that he forgot how to let it be genuine.it took me a long time to read this book, though it should have been a quick read, given its size and readability. i imagine that many will enjoy this book thoroughly, and i do recommend it to you; but i caution you to allow your own thoughts to praise the book, and not the pressure of the thousands and popular-literati.joshua s hill, 7/109/10 each line takes us one step further on not just the boy's journey but our own.


buy on amazon

reviews by michelle herbert and ryan lawler and joshua s hill
2 positive reader review(s) for the ocean at the end of the lane








the ocean at the end of the lane reader reviews

nhu tran from vietnam
neil gaiman is unquestionably an “unclassifiable” writer. the ocean at the end of the lane - the whole story is lyrical, just like the name itself. i reckon its genre might as well be categorised as magical realism. it recites the nightmare world of a boy, which only relives vividly when he is standing by “the ocean at the end of the lane“. how can something as small as a lane can end with an ocean, right? but that’s the point for the readers to find out. through his writing, the characters are as if illustrated right in front of me, really. the horrific elements are just right, enough to jumble up your mind a bit, but surely not to the point of upsetting you. such horrible imagination is the embodiment of childhood fear and obsession, sometimes it makes me doubt if neil has put a touch of his personal true story there. the story ends in a way that makes me wonder if everything happened to the boy was real, or it was just imagination at all. it’s a beautifully haunting ending!
10/10 (2020-04-14)







david from united kingdom
the ocean at the end of the lane is, i think, gaiman's most personal novel to date. a hauntingly beautiful tale of a seven year old boy and his brush with the nightmare world that lives just below the surface of reality, this is the type of book that will stay with you for ages after you have finished it. the protagonist revisits his old childhood haunts after a funeral and finds himself remembering a half-forgotten episode from his childhood. we meet the hempstocks, three women (well, a girl and two women who are obvious representations of the maid, mother, crone triple goddess beloved of our pagan ancestors) who seem to live out of time, yet are as old, if not older than time itself. there is a death which sets off a chain reaction of events with our seven year old hero at the centre. it is a simple story of sacrifice and the way an innocent action can unleash a whirlwind of consequences. the prose has a dreamlike, even nightmare quality to it at times, as the things that live on the shadowy borders of our imaginations come rushing in. gaiman has the ability to tell the tale through a young boy's eyes and make it work. it is wonderful writing. i used to say that american gods was his masterpiece. i think he has just surpassed himself. very highly recommended.
10/10 (2019-03-21)









9.7/10 from 3 reviews

all neil gaiman reviews

neverwhere 
marvel 1602 
interworld (interworld #1)
american gods 
the graveyard book 
the ocean at the end of the lane 
the sandman vol 1: preludes and nocturnes 
norse mythology 
stardust 
the ocean at the end of the lane illustrated edition 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




all the birds in the sky by charlie jane anders






charlie jane anders, all the birds in the sky is an engaging novel following the lives of two very different characters as they try to deal with the issues of growing up and trying to save the world that they live in. the novel is split into four books, with each section allowing us to see snapshots of both patricia and laurence's lives. all the birds in the sky is a book about feats of magic and genius level engineering skills that focuses on human emotion and communication.we first meet patricia and laurence when they are children and although they have to face the difficulties of parents that do not understand them they could be worse off. patricia realises that she can talk to birds and that they can understand her. she is told by the birds that she is a witch. laurence stands out at school and is picked on for this until he eventually discovers how to build his own two second time machine. a chance encounter with some rocket scientists gives him a future to work towards.patricia and laurence don't meet until patricia joins laurence's junior high school. as they are both outsiders they kind of drift together even though they are very different from each other. mostly they hang out so that laurence can get out of the nature excursions his parents want him to go on. whilst reading the first two books of this story i was constantly impressed by how well charlie jane anders tortures her main characters. from the teenagers at laurence and patricia's school who seem to be particularly vicious when dealing with people who don't fit in, to their own families trying to do what they think is best for them. what i enjoyed most about patricia and laurence is that they do not complain about their poor treatment, neither of them break down and cry that "it's not fair", instead, they look for solutions and are stoic in their determination that life after school must be significantly better than their present. neither character acts like they are victims, even though they can't control the actions of others.  although the book is mostly concerned with the lives of patricia and laurence, this doesn't mean that they live in an empty world, the cast of characters that help shape them to adulthood is very varied. there is isobel who helps inspire laurence, by giving him a chance and not just thinking he was a child. roberta, patricia's sister who goes out of her way to torture patricia so that there is no respite for her at home either. then there is theodolphus, as an assassin who believes he has seen a vision of the future where science and magic are at war with each other. theodolphus believes that he must stop this from happening, but he could be the catalyst that causes the world to end. there are a whole host of tech guys and girls that make up laurence's world. there are also the witches that patricia works with, who all have their own unique identities and skill sets.from  the overwhelming sadness i felt at the end of book two, we move on to books three and four with patricia and laurence as adults unknowingly both living in san francisco. patricia is now a full-fledged witch, trying to help the people around her overcome their problems, at the same time doing the jobs given to her by senior witches, which can involve cursing people. patricia's life is all about balance, but she worries about the state the world is in and whether she is making any difference. laurence now works for the ten percent project which is also trying to solve the world's environmental issues on a large scale, or if they can not solve these issues then they will find another planet so that the human race can live on. as adults both patricia and laurence still carry around their childhood scars, of feeling abandoned and never being good enough.i liked that even at this point, when you meet the characters as adults you still do not know how the story could end. will patricia and laurence end up destroying the world or will they be able to come together to use their skills in science and magic to avert the environmental collapse of the world and be able to save people, or are they just two people who will never fully reach their potential? charlie jane anders has written an important book that uses environmentalism as a subject matter without forcing it down our throats, and this allows us as readers to gain perspective. the fact that both patricia and laurence feel as ineffective as we do despite all their skills helps to ground them in reality, but also shows that the future is not set in stone and we all have our parts to play.one of the main issues in this story is that of miscommunication which allows for huge gulfs to develop between people. laurence doesn't realise how good patricia is for him, as she gives him perspective that he wouldn't receive if he was only surrounded by the people he works with. whereas patricia does need laurence to believe in her, because although she is very powerful she is very much alone, even amongst the other witches she feels that she is apart from them. the act of really listening is more important than that of thinking you are listening and understanding. both laurence and patricia have to learn this throughout the novel.all the birds in the sky is an intense emotional roller-coaster that flits between genres, using both sci-fi and fantasy to get its message across and although it does pit them against each other, the novel never says one is better than the other, each has its place in this story and it is by both of these working together that the best outcome will be found. all the birds in the sky is also a very human story focusing on the confusion and mistrust that can come from not understanding the unknown.i have to say that all the birds in the sky may just be my book of the year and i hope i have given you some reasons to check whether i am right.10/10 an intense emotional roller-coaster that flits between genres


buy on amazon

review by michelle herbert








all the birds in the sky reader reviews



10/10 from 1 reviews

all charlie jane anders reviews

all the birds in the sky 
the city in the middle of the night 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




it by stephen king






it, by stephen king, was a book that impacted heavily upon my teenage years. it was at that time both the biggest - and the scariest - book i’d ever read and it is a book i remember most fondly. it is always a risk to revisit beloved books decades later - you’ve (hopefully) matured, which has both negatives and positives when it comes to re-reading, and like as not the revisited book is unable to pack the same punch it once did. and this was true of it, and also king’s other doorstopper, the stand. they were both good reads but this time around i found issues and weaknesses that i gleefully missed and ignored when i was a teenager. oh, how i miss being young...it’s a book about childhood, in particular the special elements like friendships that seem they will last forever, days and lives that will last forever. i cannot think of many authors who can capture what it was like to be a kid better than king. he remembers things vividly and through his words allows us to remember the excitement, the awkwardness, the ability to laugh genuinely and hard at the dumbest of things. but it is not all fun, there are the bullies, there is the feeling of inadequacy and isolation. this is not just a horror story, indeed it is less about horror and more about coming of age.as always with any book, you should focus on the positives first and foremost. as already mentioned, this is not  simply a horror book, the scary moments are few and far between and all the more powerful for it. this is a book that allows us to relive the most potent time of our lives - our childhood. king’s narrative details the young and adult lives of bill, richie, stan, bev, eddie and mike (the loser’s club) and at the same time bring to life the cursed town of derry. and to be honest the book’s colossal length of just shy of 1,200 pages does not feel that long, especially when you are within the chapters that capture your imagination and fears most. there is much of worth and value within the pages and nostalgia plays a large part in the reading enjoyment. you’ll like these kids, they will remind you of yourself and your childhood friends, and the fact that adult life rarely pans out the way you’d thought and hoped it might will resonate with the large majority of adult readers.however, if you speak to readers who did not enjoy it their reservations often focus on the same two areas. many say it’s too long and too detailed, often pointlessly so. but the main recurring objection to the book is the ending, which i have to admit slightly disappointed me all those years ago and this time around left me feeling rather uncomfortable. it’s not just that the denouement is a bit of a let-down (which i feel it is) it is those now infamous few pages in which 6 boys and 1 girl (all aged 11) have sex in the sewers. it is very difficult to explain why this happened and what stephen king intended but now i am older, and a father, it is such a strange event to occur than i find it almost inexplicable. and for many it ruins the hundreds of pages of excellent story and characterisation that went before.as an exploration of childhood, growing up, friendship and facing both real and supernatural fears i still hold it up as a great book. but the ending, and the book’s length in general, will be unpalatable to many readers.9/10 an exploration of childhood, growing up, friendship and facing both real and supernatural fears


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
28 positive reader review(s) for it








it reader reviews

luke williams from united kingdom
the ending was quite good but didn’t leave anyone on a good ending. it just had complex vocabulary and descriptive words but not exciting ending.
9/10 (2020-04-29)







angelique from united states
awesome book, i loved it
10/10 (2020-04-17)







felicia from united states
i preface this by saying i am a huge stephen king fan and have been since 10 years old. i recently read it as an adult in my 30's and here we go...this story is an undertaking to read at over 1000 pages, but i don't feel like the details are "filler" as some feel or too much. stephen king is super detailed in all of his stories. it was a beautiful story about childhood, facing fears, life long love and friendships, and finding inner strength and courage. there were so many parts of this story that i reread because of how beautiful it is. king's ability to remind you of feelings associated with childhood - fear, awkwardness, love, lonesomeness, best friends, bullies, etc - is amazingly relayed. i too feel that i know derry and could draw a map of it. i feel now familiar with the barrens, the library, kansas street - i feel this because he writes descriptions the viewer feels they can see. the picture is painted for you and it's a masterpiece. i will say i agree that the particular scene was jarring to me, but not enough to ruin the story for me. i've been reading king so long, you would think i couldn't be shocked anymore, however...but all of that aside, i fully recommend it, it's a fantastic read. it took me a month and i am an avid reader, reading to the detriment of all other things, so..but while this book is a commitment, i don't think the reader will be dissapointed.
9/10 (2020-02-16)







devin from us
phenomenal, even despite the gargantuan size of the book. in all honesty, i think the book is too short. it consists of extremely realistic characters, a thrill-ride of scares, childhood nostalgia, and an overall great plot, you can't ask for much more. the only reason i don't give the book a solid 10 is because of the occasional (unnecessary) sexual nature of the book, but put aside king's occasional horniness, it is definitely a book worth reading.
9/10 (2019-11-26)







caleb from united states
i overall think the book was very interesting but i feel as if there was some unnessesary story in the book that just made it drag on and on at times but overall a really good read.
8/10 (2019-11-18)







jay from israel
the span of emotions regarding this work by stephan king is very interesting. i found the book a bit of a disappointment. having read several of his books before and hearing great praise for it, i downloaded the book with high hopes. the length of the book was an instant surprise, and as i later found out, a serious drawback. yes, i belong to the group of readers who think that the book is loaded with much too many stories, narratives, characters and detail. so many that the names, places and times just get lost in the flood. almost all of them are well written and interesting in their own right, but after a while, it becomes too much and irksome. perhaps even more disappointing were the multiple climaxes at the end. so many things and characters that were endlessly built up throughout the book sort of fizzled out without much explanation, or detail, just when they were most expected. the list of characters in this respect is pretty long, but i won't mention them for sake of not spoiling things for new readers. i can't say i was shocked by the bit about the interaction between the children towards the end, but i truly don't get it, or why it was important. in summary, while i am not sorry i spent the time to read all of it, king has written better books.
6/10 (2019-09-06)







rick from united states
a long episodic novel, at times exciting, that mostly moved at a reasonable pace just enough to keep me engaged throughout. there were a few lags due to long winded details mixed with philosophical insights that i thought were fillers, but they were well written so i still felt captivated by king's command of the narrative. my only gripe was near the end when the kids did something that ruined the coming of age aspect of their epic adventure. i don't know what king was thinking when he'd decided to include this weird interplay between the kids; maybe he thought that upping the craziness and absurdity would satisfy readers' expectations and jolt them out of boredom, ensuring readers that the book would end without a controversial bang...but it didn't do anything for me other than feeling cheated, disappointed, and disgusted. for this reason, i thought it cheapened the novel and prevented it from becoming a true literary classic.
9/10 (2019-08-21)







ricky from california 
book is fantastic. the only reason people are complaining about the book is because they watch the movie before hand.
10/10 (2019-07-10)







brandon from united states
a fantastic book with a plethera of great characters, interesting scenes, and fantastic worldbuilding. for all the other bad reviews about "it", the unneccesary parts you keep talking about is building up the world and characters, and was entertaining content nonetheless. he uses jewish slurs and the n world to portray how it really was back in those times, as it was very common for them to be used. and for anyone who thinks they write "it' in 500 pages or less and still have it be good, do it, and email me a copy, i'll give you a review. [email protected]
10/10 (2019-06-18)







steven from usa
this book is a real commitment. i just finished reading it, and i feel exhausted by it. i began it about 7 months ago and have been thoughtfully averaging about 50 pages a week. i give it 9 stars out of 10. i feel like i know this fictional town, and like i could draw a map of it. i'll miss it i think.
9/10 (2019-05-13)







tony from u.s.a
this book was by far the best book i have ever read. i just finished it and it is hard to let the characters go. stephen king is a great writer! he leaves his audience in suspense and does not shy away from giving the full picture. i recommend it to all who enjoy fiction novels. it does have some heavy content. amazing novel!
10/10 (2019-02-03)







alexander from united states
this book was just plain incredible. i didn't think i'd read all 1153 pages because i didn't like reading much anymore after school killed the joy of it. i just got the book because i had to get a book and i enjoyed the movie so i gave it a shot. stephen king is an amazing writer, the amount of detail and characterization that goes on in this book kept me going. it did take me almost half a year though to read , since i procrastinate a lot. i enjoyed how the book took you from classic monster horrors that a child would dream up of like clowns, zombies, and spiders, to diving into all the real life horrors like racism, abuse, sickness, losing a loved one, homophobia, and just plain bullying. i love seeing the story unfold slowly learning along with the adults, what they did in the 50's and how they are gonna defeat the monster. unlike others, i found the ending really satisfying but bittersweet. would highly recommend picking up if you enjoyed the movie.
10/10 (2019-01-15)







diego from panamá
this book is difficult to categorize in which age target is appropiate beacuse if you put for kids of 11 or 12 year old (as the main characthers of this book) the scences of the present part (in which the loser's club members are adults) have scences of sex and other things ,that the ones who read the book knows. but i think that teenagers and also kids (obviusly of 12 and 13 year old) should read this book because the lessons that they can carry carry off of this book and how the book results inspirational. the book have some errors as many of stephen king books. for example: i feel that the reason of the members from loser's club to confront pennywise are clonic, except bill, who haved the most pragmatic reason to confront the clown, and the others feel like weak (but they compensate this with their tridimensionalitie and how realistic they are). other error is that it feels kinf of convenient that bill's father had knowledge of derry's sewers and it feels much more convenient that he has not even asked his son what he would like to know. but the book in my opinion is an 8.5/10. im not agree with the people who says that the book is bad because it has a slow narrative. i think that histories like these should have that hind of narrative because that help to develop the plot better and also have more time to introduce the characthers and know them. pd: if some person notice a ortographic fault in my review, have mercy of mercy of me and im trying to learn english ;)
8/10 (2018-12-04)







anthony from australia
sensational. i think you'll find those who say it holds too much unnecessary information and detail are the same type of people who expect instant gratification in life and hold little to no imagination of their own. this book is art. this book delves into childhood and brings up image's of a past we all had, one filled with wonder, fantasy and terrors of things unseen. only here, the terror is real. stephen king introduces us to a world where the main characters are are so fleshed out, you develop an attachment to each one as though you are part of their group and with all of them for every step. the ending left me quiet and feeling slightly less, as though i had just said goodbye to good friends. it reminded me of those times i visited my own childhood home and despite wishing to stay had to leave once again. the sex between the group. i think it's says more about those who are revolted than it says anything about king. it's sexuality for me, was non existant. this was a bonding amongst seven young people that surpassed the norm. an expression of true love between the group who had been brought together, who were meant to all together. and it also made the ending, the forgetting, even more sad. depsite the horrors inside this story, it's a world i wish was real. such is the ability of stephen king, one of the greatest novelists who will continue to live through the ages long after we're gone.
10/10 (2018-11-28)







maryanne  from australia 
what is the recommend age to read this book?? hi maryanne, i myself read it first when i was 15 & it scared the living daylights out of me. i would recommend a minimum age of 15. thanks - lee @ fantasy book review
10/10 (2018-10-08)







cameron from america
i would read this book for hours and loved every bit except for the intercourse at the end… like really?
9/10 (2018-09-15)







andrew from united kingdom
i've just finished it and i miss the characters. i could see the light of the long summer days from when i was a kid (i was 11 years old in 1987, growing up in poland). the book instantly brought back memories of how we played during summer holidays. to me, its not a horror story. it's a story about a lost childhood. how we grow up and forget all those beautiful moments and purple that used to be very important in our lives. how we can't even remember some of the names of our childhood friends. it reminds me a lot of hearts in atlantis, which i consider one of the most beautiful books about childhood i've ever read. i found parts where mike hanlon reports sightings of pennywise from old derry redundant. you won't miss anything off you skip those parts. i hated the real monster. it's kind of lazy of king to have gone in this direction. i also found the seed scene very weird and unsettling. otherwise, a must-read. the ending clearly shows that it is a book about wonders of childhood and how growing up robs us of it.
8/10 (2018-06-21)







june from india
a 1367 pages long mistake....the whole book could be just shortened to abt 250 pgs...unwanted detailing and unnecessary vulgarity at the end..
6/10 (2018-06-03)







caroline  from united states 
i abosutely loved this book!! i already watched the movie prior to reading it and it was interesting to see how they are alike and different. this book was definitely one of the best and well written books i have read. i will say some parts go into a lot of detail and are kind of boring, but overall it gets really intense and i could never put it down! i fell in love with the characters ever since i watched the movie and i felt the same while reading the book. this book is not only horror but a story full of friendship, childhood, and love. 100000/10 recommend.
10/10 (2018-05-16)







maine book fair from usa
great book
10/10 (2018-03-21)







bob from canter
great book:))
10/10 (2018-02-16)







mark from australia 
i got “it” for my birthday and, as l am not an avid reader, l found the 1300+ pages quite daunting. overall, l did enjoy the book but, like other reviews in this forum, king included a lot of detail about characters, places and events that could have been reduced. obviously he needed to portray derry as a town which had a horrible and evil history. i found the child sex scene a bit off putting but again king was trying to explain the special bond this group had. i didn’t mind the ending and will now have to see the movie.
8/10 (2018-01-12)







elyse from united states
people complain about the child orgy which is very subtle compared to a famous author i know. clearly none of you have read edward lee books. you'll die of a heart attack.
10/10 (2017-11-22)







susanna from australia
this was my first stephen king novel and after the first three chapters i nearly threw it out the window. boy am i glad i didnt. i feel in love with the characters the town everything stephen wrote about made me feel like i knew them. i couldnt wait to finish it often thinking about the book during my wrking hours . it was a brilliant story that sent me on my path to read every stephen king novel i can find thank you
10/10 (2017-09-20)







duke from america 
it is a great book to the end with deadlights and a giant turtle. the loser club charters were great
8/10 (2017-09-04)







august profumo from usa
it book review by august profumo its first victim was six year old george denborogh. his (ten year old brother) bill had built a paper boat and covered with hot wax, so that it could stay, dry and buoyant down the street during a stormy morning. george, who was wearing a yellow rain slicker with a hood and galoshes, chased it all the way down (splashing joyfully) from one side of the street to the other. but, when it suddenly shot down a storm drains’ mouth, he tried to snatch it with one arm while it was still swirling from vortices in the center, tantalizingly. but, it tore his arm off—and he died of shock from losing too much blood. then a few other children suffered similar fates, but it always assumed the same form, a clown with orange pompons, aka penny wise. then two gay men who were crossing their favorite bridge were assaulted in the future by two anti-gay men. then one hoodlum threw adrian mellon over the bridge, after using fists. then he landed near a storm drain, where it a clown lurked and then killed mellon. so, the gay survivor’s attorney explained that, if he ever mentioned seeing the clown, they’d lose the case. so, the gay had to cover it up. so, currently the derry librarian (mike hanlon), who was a friend, called bill on the phone and asked him to return to derry since it appeared to be happening again. it’s finely spun tale about a group of childhood friends that took an oath to return to their home (derry, main) to destroy, it, since they had apparently failed as children. the group of seven friends struggles to overcome it: a monster. when they were children, however, it appeared to be a shape shifter: it automatically adapted its visage to coincide with the children’s greatest fear. thus, it appeared differently to everyone, according to the perceiver precepts. so, it looked like the creature, the werewolf, frankenstein, the mummy, a leper, a giant bird, or an eye. this stems from watching horror movies at the aladdin theater with bella lugosi. since this period was 1958, a black and white tv was possible. so, when the friends were adults it, appeared to be two different types of giant spiders: one spiritual (eternal, dimensional or immortal), and the other mortal (flesh and blood that laid eggs). the friends must overcome both in order to triumph. the spiritual (it) had to be defeated first before attempting to kill the body (it). so, there were two separate battles. so, when the turtle created the universe (by accident), it wasn’t included. so, it had to create itself. the spiritual (it) was sublime, courageous and cunning, thus, it was extremely tough to defeat. but, the body (it) was bizarre, cowardly and naive and begged for its own survival and that of its spawn: one hundred eggs. it was trying to bargain. but, ben crushed them all with his feet. it’s weaving back and forth superbly between when they were children and when they were adults. so, you’ll be dying to read the next thread. a vision for it bill and ben had researched in the library and concluded that since the indians believed in visions after being exposed to smoking logs in their lodges that they should try it. so, they gathered faggots and placed them inside their underground fort to ignite with matches later. then bill asked beverly, if she’d be so kind as to not participate just in case they might have problems getting out. so, she could help. but, she asked everyone to draw lots from her matches, and even though, everyone drew fairly with a single match from her hand, ultimately, bill ordered that everyone should participate including beverly. within a few hours, only mike hanlon and richard cozier remained within their smoking lodge—everyone else had driven out including their illustrious leader: bill. then when they emerged—a few hours later—they were coughing slightly, but they were ok. however, bill asked them if they had had the desired vision—but they agreed that they had—and it was shared. it hailed from outside the earth (perhaps, from a different universe). it crashed over a million years ago and landed in derry, main. it was eternal and a spiritual being. it would sleep for about twenty-seven years, then awaken, and commence eating children’s bodies and souls. bill discovers silver when he comes back as an adult when bill revisited derry as an adult, he found his trusty old childhood bike again at a local store: silver. so, he bought it. then he called mike hanlon on the phone and asked if he could leave it there in his garage. he agreed. then bill had to walk it by propping its flat top tire up and balancing it on the bottom, precariously. so, he’s holding it up by its handle bars. then he used two hands: one gripping the handle bars and the other the top flat tire. then he walked forward a wee bit at time. so, when he arrived at mike’s, he already had all of bill’s tire kit gear and screw drivers ready (including a pump). mike had bought everything about a month ago, and he had known why. then bill puts silver on its seat and tests the wheels by spinning them a few times after finishing his repairs. then he tightened some bolts and put a few more drops of 3-m gear oil on the chain. then he beeps his horn, “aaaauuuuuggguuuuuu.” making a dam initially, ben had a major scrape with three bad classmates who followed him from the library to the barrens where three children were building a dam: eddie, richey and bill. (ben had refused to allow their leader to copy from his exam paper on the last day of school). the bad classmates had reaped havoc on their nascent dam by kicking it apart with their feet—and then stomping on it. but, when ben arrived, he chucked a few stones furiously at them, driving them away—and the others friends assisted by throwing their own. so, ben drew a side view diagram, with his notebook and pen, how to build a stronger dam with wooden boards, supports, sand and gravel. then they agreed to meet the next day to begin their new project. so, they started at 8am, jun 4. but, their initial attempt had failed, so they had to pile a few more stones between the plywood planks. so, it took about three weeks. the dam was so successful that the local cop, mr. nell, told them that they had to take it down, since it caused the sewage lines to backup around town. he told them that if they tore it down (quickly) that he wouldn’t press charges. beverly notices that her parents can’t see the blood in her bathroom she used the sink and toilet, but she saw a lot of blood suddenly gushing out of vents and spilling out, all over the floor. so, she had to clean it off herself with towels since her stomach, arms and legs were covered. so, she told her friends about it. so, the four boys: eddie, bill, richey and ben went to her house since her parents were gone for the day at work: her father was a janitor and her mother was a waitress. but, they saw the mess. so, they helped her clean by buying new towels and then they took them to the local laundry mat to be cleaned. beverley, remembered her parents having sex once with the bed springs crashing loudly up and down. her friend explained to her about what she knew about it: “when the man finishes, he pees all over your bug.” beverly as an adult was living with her husband tom who beat her up with his belt beverly had married a successful business man who nevertheless beat her regularly with his own leather belt. initially, he used it when he caught her smoking, since she had agreed to quit. but, once in awhile when she had received parking tickets, he’d hit her with it a few times. then he’d say, “you’re going to get a whipping!” just like his mother. but, beverley believed that since her own father had hit her when she deserved it, that’s why she was submissive. but, when she told tom that she’d be leaving for while in order to fulfill her prior commitments (although she didn’t say where) he went berserk. so, he went beyond the pale of a mere whipping with her. so, she retaliated in order keep to stay alive and to return to derry, main. after, escaping beverly called her friend from a 7-11 from a pay phone and arranged to visit. then she took a cab to her apartment and stayed there overnight, sleeping on the front room’s couch. then the next morning, she explained what had happened—and her friend was a pro-woman’s liberation type (like rhoda kellogg). so, her friend said, “you should’ve divorced your husband, tom, years ago. then she arranged for her plane’s departure to derry, main—and her friend dropped her off at the airport. then tom visited beverly’s friend’s apartment and forced his way in—although initially she had dropped her guard for only a second. then she was forced to reveal where beverly had gone, because after beating her to a pulp the first time, he had threatened to kill her. so, tom flew there. but, since he looked bad from his wife’s beating, the rental car agencies refused to rent him a car. so, tom searched through the classified newspaper, searching for cars. somehow, he found one, but he had to get the plates for it in the airport garage. then he asked the seller via pay phone to drop a screw driver off to do it with, when he delivered the car to the airport. then, when he arrived, he paid the kid $1,100 cash. the refrigerator with parasites in the dump beverley, had followed one bad guy to his favorite refrigerator in the dump, where he kept a zoo of half dead animals like cats, dogs, rats. then when he opened the door, he was attacked by one parasite type creature similar to a flying leech, with a huge proboscis, which poked a huge quarter inch in diameter hole in his arm, and started sucking his blood. so, he grabbed it with his free hand, squashing it dead. but, the blood that had oozed out of his wound on ground was his. then another ten vile creatures emerged and attached themselves to him in the same revolting way, sucking all his blood out. then, for the coup de grace, it came by with a slightly different visage and dragged him off to eat. then beverly rejoins her friends and shows them what has happened to the dump’s refrigerator. then they followed her in order to ascertain, where the boy who was dragged off by it, went. then when they arrived within the vicinity, they saw a giant tunnel spiraling, downward. so, beverly, who had her (target) slingshot in her back pocket, pulled it out, and withdrew one of the two silver pellets from her front pocket, then aimed it, and finally shot at a creature that looked like a giant mosquito from hell. but, initially she had missed, but it had curved back magically and struck its target—making mince meat out of it—at the last second. the first rock fight mike hanlon was trying to escape from three bad classmates who had infiltrated by climbing over his fences and continued following him out. one claimed to have poisoned his dog. they hit each other with branches and pelted each other with small stones. so, they chased him to the barrens wild country, where he was trying to shake them. that’s where the friends were, in their own territory. so, they had had plenty of ammo: round sedimentary stones against their arch enemies who were pursuing, strategically cached in pits. so, they succeeded in defending themselves, admirably. so, from that day onward they allowed mike hanlon to become a member of the losers club. so, he agreed to keep their vital secrets. but, after talking with him, they discovered that some of their experiences were shared: it. then mike showed his friends his father’s entire collection of photos from derry without asking for his permission, which included the clown, doing round-offs, flip-flops and double whip backs, as entertainment for the children and handing out orange helium filled balloons that floated in the opposite direction of the wind without casting any shadows. (bill had seen similar revealing pictures from his father’s albums with his little brother, george). mike had seen it in person as well. the black spot fire mike was talking to his father at the hospital just before he died of cancer and he was taking morphine to kill the pain. he told him about when he was in the army and patronized local off base drinking establishments during (carrie nation’s) prohibition on the weekends, which was merited because he had worked extremely hard during the week. he got in trouble for going because somehow it got back to the co. so, they allowed the blacks on his base to build their own club there. after, we refurbished its floors with oil, it opened everyday at 11am but it was like a cafeteria serving only soda pop and cheddar burgers with french fries. then after a while, we had live jazz music on friday and saturday nights from 5pm to 2am. indeed, it was so popular that people would come from across the state line, stay and danced all night long but they brought their own booze inside brown paper bags (like canadian whisky). then about six hooded gang members with white robes and masks drove there in a white van and exited. then they lit their kerosene torches with matches and used them to ignite the building inside, mainly by throwing them through the kitchen window. the front door was wide open, but because that was the only way out, it got jammed shut during the first ten seconds, since there was a stampede (about 300 people panicked). then i was able to escape by jumping through the kitchen window, but i had to be careful not to cut my hands with broken glass. then the sergeant showed up, driving a heavy steak truck. then he got out and started to give orders to my friend and me. so, my friend hit the sergeant’s head with his fist, knocking him out cold. then he jumped into the truck and rammed it into the flaming building. the first time he hit, he got hurt, but when he hit it again by putting it in reverse. then when he finally hit it full force, a small crack appeared and a few people were able to scuttle out, escaping with smoke trailing behind. but, some were still on fire, so i started throwing buckets of water or hitting them with wet towels in order to extinguish it. the epilogue then at the very end, bills wife, audra, who had survived the ordeal with it—in the catacombs, attached to a cocoons’ spun like thread—was stricken with catatonia. but, she still hasn’t recovered fully—even though bill has grown bald from aging. so, bill gets silver ready—his trusty old bike from his childhood days with playing cards on its spokes held there by close-pins. then he takes her for a ride. then when he says,” hi oh, silver, away!” she finally wakes up from her catatonic state like a miracle. then she warns him to stop or he’ll kill them both with his foolishness. then audra, said, “i remember getting off the plane at bangor, and i can’t remember a thing after that.” analysis king continues writing until he’s satisfied with his endings. but, because he’s hot-rodder, he’s rolling along inexorably forward from his own momentum like a giant wheel. so, it’ll take a while for him to stop because his accrued momentum (from velocity and mass) is insurmountably massive. his descriptions are still remarkably detailed, vivid and refreshing from beginning to end. he’s thoroughly immersed in his topic because he identifies closely with each character for their sake. so, he sees their perspectives and understands it utterly. then his explanations are honest, profound and outstanding.
10/10 (2016-12-17)







martin from austria
never have i been this scared while reading a book!
10/10 (2016-10-15)







adam from australia
this is a book that can shape your reading years as a child/teenager (i believe i was 10 when i first read it) simply because it can reach out to those parts of your life that resonate most strongly with what the loser's club may experience away from the horror of it. i have since read this novel several times since and while i can on occasion feel a bit impatient to reach critical points in the novel i also realize that those moments would not have the same impact without the time spent exploring the characters beforehand. i disagree with the comment about the length (which the above also mentions is not an issue for all) as i found that it created a complete journey for the main cast which may have been missed on a shorter page count. and also i was always surprised by the outrage about the scene where beverly ties them all together during sex, to me it made sense in the situation of which it occurred given that they were trying to create a bond that would never be lost in the insanity they had witnessed and the lives ahead of them. i guess the purpose of this was in a sense that if they had not created some connection (and stan's cutting of palms also follows) they would have never come back to end it later on in their lives and what they had gone through as children would have accounted for nothing.
9/10 (2016-10-09)









9.1/10 from 29 reviews

all stephen king reviews

joyland (hard case crime series)
under the dome 
the dark tower series 
the talisman: road of trials 
11.22.63 
the stand 
it 
the eyes of the dragon 
needful things 
rose madder 
desperation 
the long walk 
gerald's game 
bag of bones 
duma key 
salem's lot 
firestarter 
the shining 
pet sematary 
the talisman (talisman: book 2)
black house (talisman: book 2)
the gunslinger (the dark tower series: book 1)
the drawing of the three (the dark tower series: book 2)
the waste lands (the dark tower series: book 3)
wizard and glass (the dark tower series: book 4)
the wind through the keyhole (the dark tower series: book 4.5)
wolves of the calla (the dark tower series: book 5)
song of susannah (the dark tower series: book 6)
the dark tower (the dark tower series: book 7)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the ninth rain by jen williams
(the winnowing flame trilogy #1)





hold onto your fantasy hats, broom sticks and dragons and any hope you had for not falling in love with tor, vintage and noon.the great city of ebora once glittered with gold. now it’s streets are stalked by wolves. tormalin the oathless has no taste for sitting around waiting to die while the realm of his storied ancestors falls to pieces - talk about a guilt trip. better to be amongst the living, where there are taverns full of women and wine.when eccentric explorer, lady vincenza 'vintage' de grazon, offers him employment, he sees an easy way out. even when they are joined by a fugitive witch with a tendency to set things on fire, the prospect of facing down monsters and retrieving ancient artefacts is preferable to the abomination he left behind.but not everyone is willing to let the eboran empire collapse, and the adventurers are quickly drawn into a tangled conspiracy of magic and war. for the jure'lia are coming, and the ninth rain must fall...jen williams “the ninth rain” is unlike anything i have ever read. for a fantasy lover, it’s one of those rare books that pulls at your heartstrings but also at the knowledge that it’s okay to be imperfect, inquisitive and slightly mad.chasing dreams of finding treasures beyond understanding, vintage is on a mission to understand the depths of humanity, while our charming; yet self-loving tormalin wants nothing better than to escape the world he knows. he is satisfied with drinking wine and loving women, nothing wrong with that; except when your life span is more than a few hundred years, life itself become a blur and the meaning of it is distorted by the need to ‘feed’. the unlikely friendship forged with vintage sees tor take on ‘jobs’ no ordinary eborian would do, but then again, tor is not like his ancestors and he’s not sure whether that’s a good thing or not. vintage, on the other hand, is the perfect combination of wit, sassiness and is able to cut down a person with a simple phrase. rather savage, but also delightful in so many ways. the friendship between vintage and tor is one that should be admired and viewed from a new pair of eyes. and then, throw in a new witch that has been kept as a prisoner because her powers are too deadly, you have one epic journey into what makes a humans, human.the intricacy of the human world overlapped with the fantasy realm is one that is unique and that will leave readers wondering what wonderful new adventures our three heroes will embark on. but like so many tales, everything is not as it seems. if the jure'lia returns, the world of men, the immortals and what it means to be alive will be tested to the limit. i can’t wait for the second book to come out.jen williams’ characters are so relatable and i’m sure you’ll spend your days wondering how fantastic it would be to have a conversation with vintage. how beautiful tor really is, not just aesthetically, and what wonderful secrets noon is keeping. and if you should ever find yourself in a situation where the world doesn’t make sense, pretend you’re vintage; always look beyond what is in front of your eyes, search with your intuition and then, perhaps you will find the answer. just don’t take life too seriously, that’s tor’s take on it and if you find yourself helpless, defenceless, remember the power is always within you to change the world around you; just like noon.'an original new voice in heroic fantasy' adrian tchaikovsky9/10 one of those rare books that pulls at your heartstrings


buy on amazon

review by snjezana bobic








the ninth rain reader reviews



9/10 from 1 reviews

all jen williams reviews

the winnowing flame trilogy (the winnowing flame trilogy)
the ninth rain (the winnowing flame trilogy #1)
the bitter twins (the winnowing flame trilogy #2)
the poison song (the winnowing flame trilogy #3)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the poppy war by r f kuang
(the poppy war #1)





i received an advanced reader copy of the poppy war from the publisher in exchange for an honest review. i would like to thank r. f. kuang and harper voyager for this opportunity. rin is a war orphan who works at her foster parents' shop and their main income is created by dealing drugs. only just into her teenage years, rin is offered a proposal to marry and bear children for an unattractive gentleman three times her age who has no redeeming qualities. she decides she needs to escape this presented and projected future and her only means of doing this is to study for the keju - an examination where the top-50 students in the country that pass the test can train at the military educational establishment set in the empire's capital. surprising everyone apart from herself she is successful and then whisked away by her tutor to the city and this is where rin's adventure really starts. although the college sections are similar in design and structure to those depicted within novels such as the name of the wind and the wizard of earthsea, the poppy war has a lot more in common with anthony ryan's blood song. this is a dark, brutal, gruesome and occasionally uncomfortable book to experience so readers should not think that because it features a school environment with best friends, bullies, and coming of age experiences that this is dumbed down like some fantasy adventures that feature such tropes.  the poppy war is inspired by china's bloody 20th-century history and parallels between segments here and real events can be seen at certain points. the oriental take on fantasy is something that has intrigued me since i read fonda lee's - jade city and similar to that tale kuang's debut is complex, insightful, well-crafted and features certain characters who kick-ass at martial arts. the world building here is sublime, as is the depth of the nations history, religions and practices. there were many ways the author engineered the intricate details of her created world but my personal favourite was when the myths of the trifecta were presented in the form of a shadow puppet show. the characterisation and character development employed throughout this novel are exquisite. written in the third person perspective, rin is the only point of view character that we follow and to say that her character and personality change throughout the course of the narrative is an understatement. she is an excellent protagonist and shortly she may be mentioned alongside genre-defining characters such as kvothe and vaelin. there is quite a sizeable dramatis personae and too many standout characters to mention in this review. notable mentions go to jiang (the lore master who might just be a little bit insane), nezha (rin's rival who is the beautiful son of a warlord and who should have a glorious military career), and altan (the college's finest student who excels in all aspects and has never lost a fight). also, the cike are brilliant. they are almost like this worlds version of the x-men.approximately the first half of the book is set in the school where students learn about five subjects including strategy, lore, and martial arts training. three years later we reach the second half of the poppy war which features skirmishes, battles, political indecision and some of the grimmest and most shocking scenes i've come across for a long time. one moment is particular stands out as being on par with the nightmare that was the hammer scene from anna stephen's godblind. this story features plenty of deaths as well as torture, drug use, mutilation, implied rape, grotesque monsters and malevolent gods. the first third of the book doesn't really present this sort of darkness and despondency so i thought i'd make it clear in my review that this is a story that is very adult in nature. a good percentage of destruction, later on, is generated from this worlds magic where certain vessels can be assigned the power of the gods and wield it for their own means. as i'm sure you can imagine, this leads to ridiculously overpowered players that then can lead to complete madness. 2017's debut fantasy releases were some of the finest of recent years and it's great to know that kuang has picked up the baton and is carrying on the trend and leading the charge in 2018. i can safely say that this will be the finest debut of 2018 and i'd be surprised if it isn't one of the top 3 books of the year full stop. spectacular, masterclass, brilliant, awesome... all the complimentary buzzwords you can imagine don't quite do the poppy war justice for how amazing it is. the only very minor criticism i have is that on the cover artwork rin has a bow and i can't remember her using such a weapon in the book. that's my only negative. if you like dark adult fantasy then check out this masterpiece by grimdark's newest and perhaps darkest daughter.9.4/10 - james tivendaler.f. kuang’s “the poppy war” is one of the most hardest-hitting and impressive debuts i’ve had the privilege of reading; it pulled me through an exhaustive range of emotion from which i haven’t yet recovered. the book explores the corruption of power, the lust for vengeance, and the darkest depths of humanity and savagery. it comments on the nature of war, religion, and social imbalance. it paints an all-too-real portrait of racial atrocities, drug dependence, and genocide. yet it is compulsively readable and quietly educational as well. kuang seems driven to shine a spotlight on humanity at its basest level, and what we find is unfortunately all too familiar.these revelations are frightening for a fantasy novel, but even more disturbing when drawing comparisons to crises evident in our own recent history.  this story has direct correlations with the first and second sino-japanese war and world war ii, when the japanese imperialists were responsible for the deaths of millions of civilians and pows through deeds of human experimentation, starvation, chemical and biological warfare, and genocide. it was a horrifying and shameful period in human history, and it happened less than a century ago. but don’t let these themes scare you away from picking this book up, as the story takes on a much less oppressive tone for the first two acts. the narrative follows rin, a teenage war orphan who is assigned to live with adoptive parents who deal opium for a living. they plan to sell rin to a man thrice her age who can pay her parents a large dowry, and rin envisions a life of unhappiness and disgust unless she can somehow find a way out. she learns about a test that all students can take that would place them in universities across the country. having no money, the only college that wouldn’t charge her tuition is the very best of the best: a military academy in sinegard, the capital city of the nikara empire. this poor, southern girl who is years behind in her education must sacrifice everything to gain a spot at this prestigious academy where only the sons and daughters of warlords and politicians attend. although rin passes the test, she quickly learns that her challenges are just getting started.we spend the first half of the book following rin’s progress and education in the studies of martial arts, lore, strategy, and other subjects that will prepare her for a high leadership role in the armed forces. but rin is different than her peers; she has left her old life behind, and faces a homelessness and starvation if she doesn’t excel in her studies. she dedicates herself to learning as much as she can about the history of her empire, the first and second poppy wars, and how an entire race of people were sacrificed just to gain allies in a conflict. she trains in a different form of combat than any of her other peers who have been fighting since they could stand. she starts to learn about the ancient art of shamanism, and how ingesting certain hallucinogens or opioids can help transcend her state of meditation towards communion with her gods. rin is an imperfect soul who is easy to root for, especially since it is plain to see how any one of us could make the same mistakes and errors of judgment in our own youth. she means well, and is not afraid to sacrifice anything for what she believes is right and just. this theme comes into play several times throughout the course of the book and helps to shape the type of person rin feels she is fated to become. but the gods may scoff at ideas such as fate and destiny, and rin and her peers are forced to make the most difficult decision of all: when faced with unspeakable horror, how far would you go to exact vengeance? can acts of terror ever truly be justified?simply put, r.f. kuang’s “the poppy war” is a towering achievement of modern fantasy. kuang writes in a descriptive and narrative style that presents many sides of an issue without trying to persuade the reader into thinking which path is the “correct” one, if one such exists. as the book descends into its bleak final act, the connection we’ve built with rin and her companions is put to the test. it is a testament to kuang’s skill as a writer to establish such a strong connection with her protagonists that the impact of the events in third act hit as hard as they do. there aren’t any real complaints i have about this book, which is wholly impressive considering how early it is in the author’s young career. this story weaves recent chinese history into an emotionally chaotic, brilliantly-told grimdark fantasy that is impossible to forget. read it.9.3 / 10 - adam weller9/10 a masterpiece by grimdark's newest and perhaps darkest daughter.


buy on amazon

reviews by james tivendale and adam weller








the poppy war reader reviews



9.4/10 from 1 reviews

all r f kuang reviews

the poppy war (the poppy war #1)
the dragon republic (the poppy war #2)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




a brightness long ago by guy gavriel kay






“we like to believe, or pretend, we know what we are doing in our lives. it can be a lie. winds blow, waves carry us, rain drenches a man caught in the open at night, lightning shatters the sky and sometimes his heart, thunder crashes into him bringing the awareness he will die. we stand up, as best we can under that. we move forward as best we can, hoping for light, kindness, mercy, for ourselves and those we love. sometimes these things come, sometimes they do not.”guy gavriel kay’s a brightness long ago is a masterpiece; perhaps the finest work of one of the world’s greatest living storytellers.set in the fictional nation of batiara (serving as a near-proxy for 15th century italy), kay effortlessly drifts through a complex narrative while developing a wide cast of fully-realized characters. the reader experiences some of the same events through several different viewpoints, gaining multiple insights that helps to enrich the story’s depth. the plot is reminiscent of the lions of al-rassan as most major events swirl around two charismatic adversaries, mercenary captains folco d’acorsi and teobaldo monticola di remigio, neither of whom can be easily defined as good or bad men. they have both made a career out of being hired by powerful city-states to wage war and expand their employers’ territories, and have been finding themselves on opposite sides of the battlefield for decades. their history of hate runs deep.but the story isn’t always centered d’acorsi and di remigio. although their presence casts heavy shadows throughout the book, kay chooses to spend most of the narrative through the eyes of characters who dance along the outskirts of these historic events. most of these characters will not find their way into history books, but their influence on the world are just as powerful. these lesser-known players on the periphery are catalysts for change, and their impulses inadvertently help shape the world.“an encounter on a springtime road. the random spinning of fortune’s wheel. it can sway us, change us, shape or end our days.”guidanio cerra is the leading first-person pov in the story; we start and end with cerra’s narrative, as his sections of the book are shared memories told from the later years of his life. adira ripoli is a noble’s daughter who defies her station through adrenaline-fueled assassination missions and high-stakes horse races. jelena is a pagan healer with a supernatural sense of the spirit world and keeps finding herself amidst powerful players on the cusp of death. we spend time with dukes, high patriarchs, scholars, soldiers, and many others as their lives drift in and out of some of the most important moments in the nation’s history. some grow. others die.throughout the story, kay keeps exploring the consequences of impulsive decisions and the chaos that spawns from them. decisions such as hanging around a hallway for an extra minute, or turning your horse north instead of south – all are actions that one thinks nothing of at the time, but their repercussions can last beyond your lifetime. interestingly, kay challenges this theme by offering the possibility of divine intervention. depending on your level of faith, this is one of the very few times the book veers into ‘low fantasy’ territory. it asks the reader to contemplate the existence of god, and if god plays a role in impulsive decision-making and its oft-fatal outcomes.around the halfway point to the novel, there is an interlude that feels deeply personal. kay outs himself by breaking the fourth wall and commenting on the nature of stories, how they are told, how they spread, and the reader’s role in experiencing it all. it feels like kay is sharing his wisdom gained from a lifetime writing for a worldwide audience.this story is shocking, devastating, and beautiful. kay’s language is elegant in its simplicity, yet painstakingly profound as it cuts to the core of what makes us think, and act, and remember. time and again you may guess where the story’s heading, only to be wrong over, and over again. passages were read and re-read, and tears were shed more times than i care to admit. i believe that a brightness long ago is a book i will revisit throughout my lifetime, with hope that i will gain new perspectives as my memories change or linger, and my feelings grow or fade.“shelter can be hard to find. a place can become our home for reasons we do not understand. we build the memories that turn into what we are, then what we were, as we look back. we live in the light that comes to us.”-- adam weller, 10/10guy gavriel kay’s a brightness long ago is a beautiful story. it is vintage kay, with prose that can only be properly described as art. it’s the sort of story that elicits emotion at nearly every turn. sometimes aching and haunting, sometimes tragic and nostalgic. it’s a deeply personal tale about the small people who still contribute to great events, and perhaps in doing so have a measure of greatness themselves.one of my first thoughts on finishing a brightness long ago was that i would never be able to write an adequate review for this novel. to even attempt a review felt a bit like hubris. after all, any words i might put down to describe and quantify this story would only pale in comparison to the work itself. i could describe characters, plot, and setting. each of these are excellent, beautifully crafted, world class in execution. but what stands out most about this novel is the feeling it left me with, the satisfaction of reading it. i often reread paragraphs for the beauty of the prose or to simply read again the profound thought or reflection being offered. paragraphs like this one, which begins the novel:“the sailors say the rain misses the cloud even as it falls through light or dark into the sea. i miss her like that as i fall through my life, through time, the chaos of our time. i dream of her some nights, still, but there is nothing to give weight or value to that, it is only me, and what i want to be true. it is only longing.”each of the characters are vividly and lovingly crafted, multifaceted and complex. they feel real. and in some ways almost more than real. they are complex enough to allow us to glimpse, if only for a moment, those we have known who might share similarities with them. this causes them to be much more than characters on a page. they become people, real and breathing, or at least so it seems. it is exceedingly rare to find characters that feel so unique, so authentic. the characterizations stand out as exceptional even in comparison to those in kay's other novels. as with all of his work, this one makes us feel deeply. for the characters we come to love and what they go through… but also for ourselves. the narrative style surfaces our own memories, mixing our quite real nostalgia and memory with that portrayed in the telling of the story itself. where does one begin and the other end? how much of our memory is truth, and how much simply a hope of how we ought to have acted or wish we had felt? these sorts of questions blend seamlessly with a plot that is perfectly paced and set in a fully realized world. much of kay’s fiction, while technically secondary world, takes place in a world quite similar to europe in various parts of its history. this story centers on batiara, roughly analog to renaissance italy in our own world. perhaps most importantly, kay’s world is fully realized and the way he tells the story leaves no doubt in your mind that you are getting only a glimpse, fleeting and yet beautiful, of the lives taking place in this world that is so like and yet unlike our own.this book, even more than kay's other works, reads as a reflection on the vagaries of life. how we each manage, lives changing on a moment, a single decision, as we each make our way "under the god's sun." it's also a book about how our lives affect and change the lives of others, even when - especially when? - we don't intend it. perhaps most of all it makes us think about the idea of memory, the way we may vividly recall those seemingly random happenings that shaped our lives many years later and turn them over in our minds, finding new meaning in them, or not.i am not old. but in reading this novel i find myself reflecting on my own youth, my own formation. there is a sense in which our adolescence shapes us, for good and ill. we find those memories, i find those memories, especially vivid, moving, bright. kay crafts a story here that is more than a story. it's a sort of memoir. a reflection on memory and especially on this tendency we have to remember vividly - if not always fondly - those days of our own liminality, or own becoming. those events which most shaped us as the people we were to become. in the words of the novel, "perhaps it is true of every life, that times from our youth remain with us, even when the people are gone, even if many, many events have played out between where we are and what we are remembering." this is kay at his finest, his most reflective, his most powerful.calvin park, 10/1010/10 a masterpiece; perhaps the finest work of one of the world’s greatest living storytellers.


buy on amazon

reviews by adam weller and calvin park
3 positive reader review(s) for a brightness long ago








a brightness long ago reader reviews

francesca from italy
i am a big ggk fan and this is my favourite. kay adds such texture to his narrative, the characters are as well-formed as you could wish for. you really are reading a master of his art. this is a complex story, full of twists and turns, and everything you could possibly hope for from this canadian maestro!
10/10 (2020-05-01)







judy from usa
i fell into this tale and never wanted to climb out. i agree that this could be his best work, or at least rivals his best, and it did remind me overall of the lions of all-rassan. the shifting points of view, the gorgeous prose, the deeply-written characters, and the unpredictability of the plot, all of these make the story even better. i wished i had been reading on my kindle so i could highlight, but which words would i not have highlighted?? this is an exceptional piece of fiction and highly recommended.
10/10 (2020-02-25)







yvonne from canada
too wordy. i am a dedicated kay fan having read all his previous novels since being introduced to them thanks to a friend. i got it for christmas from this friend. although i definitely enjoyed it - found myself getting impatient with the wordiness that didn't add to character or plot so not as finely crafted as in his earlier books. still a fun read. i just wonder if pressure to churn out a novel results in the wordiness as i experienced with jk rowlings.
8/10 (2020-01-07)









9.5/10 from 4 reviews

all guy gavriel kay reviews

tigana 
the lions of al-rassan 
the fionavar tapestry 
under heaven 
a brightness long ago 
the summer tree (the fionavar tapestry: book 1)
the wandering fire (the fionavar tapestry: book 2)
the darkest road (the fionavar tapestry: book 3)
sailing to sarantium (the sarantine mosaic #1)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the priory of the orange tree by samantha shannon






as a huge tolkien fan, and one who considers his writing to be the very best fantasy has to offer, i don’t often compare other books to his works (at least not in a positive way.) simply because there is very rarely a good comparison to be made. every great work of fantasy has felt somewhat shallow in contrast to the deep pool of imagination he conjured with his words. nothing cuts it. nothing competes. however, with this i do venture to make a comparison. i do venture to concur with the blurb laura eve has provided this book with; this is a “feminist successor to the lord of the rings” because it is a story told with grace and infused with rich history and lore in its gloriously huge scope: it is magnificent in every regard. it’s all about the girl power here! i recommend this to readers who enjoy female driven fantasy that is also carefully paced like the works of robin hobb, tad williams and chris wooding. so, what makes this book so excellent and what makes it stand out against a plethora of other fine fantasy novels on the market today? for me, and i do not doubt for many other readers too, this ticks every box. not only do we have real characters, and by real i mean characters so well-written that they actually begin to leap out of the page as they battle their internal conflicts and self-doubt, but we also have a world with a huge past. and the characters are driven by it as they try to live up to the example their ancestors set. they are trying to be better people, more worthy people. i loved this constant drive, it made the world feel old and like we have only glimpsed but a fraction of its vast timeline that has spanned ages. there so much more here, so much room for more stories. and if i go away from a book this large wanting more, then that’s a very good sign indeed. the plot rests on the threat of the nameless one returning. it’s a giant dragon that threatens to destroy the world and all in it if the eastern and western kingdoms cannot put aside their differences and unite in order to destroy the monumental threat. much of the novel is dedicated to the unification of the two factions, and several characters have many different ideas about how exactly this should be done ranging from assassination to simple negotiation. it’s a colourful story of witchcraft and romance, of dragons and political intrigue, of treachery and love and one that continued to surprise me until the very end. it’s also worth briefly mentioning here that i did not like the author’s series the bone season. it was too young adult for my taste, but i clearly loved this. so, i really do urge other readers to try this regardless of what you thought about samantha shannon’s other work. this is completely different, and i don’t hesitate to say that this will be one of the biggest fantasy releases this year. don’t miss it, it’s incredible. 10/10 magnificent in every regard... this will be one of the biggest fantasy releases this year. don’t miss it, it’s incredible. 


buy on amazon

review by sean barrs
1 positive reader review(s) for the priory of the orange tree








the priory of the orange tree reader reviews

hayley from united kingdom
i have just finished this during our current lock down and couldn’t have picked a better read. normally i am left feeling disoriented and wanting more after an intense read but i was whole heartedly satisfied when i came to the end (i could easily read about this world again and again though) i fell in love with every character and their rich history. the imagery and descriptive senses enabled me to place myself with in the ever moving story. mythology, love, deception, adventure, conflict, peace, it has everything i could have wanted.
10/10 (2020-03-29)









9.9/10 from 2 reviews

all samantha shannon reviews

the priory of the orange tree 
the bone season (scion #1)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the raven tower by ann leckie






there has probably been no author to have such a dramatic impact on the world of science fiction & fantasy in the last decade as that made by ann leckie, whose debut novel ancillary justice walked away with every major genre award available to her. we would probably need to look at the debuts of authors such as brandon sanderson and n.k. jemisin for a comparison, but i would argue that neither has achieved the meteoric rise and success so quickly out of the gate that ann leckie has achieved.so, it should be of little surprise that, when i found out leckie was writing a fantasy novel, i jumped at the opportunity to read it.truth be told, however, that when i first opened the cover of the raven tower, i quickly slammed it shut, frustrated at yet another attempt to subvert expectations by changing the way in which authors tell stories. i dropped it on my distressingly unstable to read pile and read the fork, the witch, and the worm by christopher paolini.it wasn’t long, however, until i returned to the raven tower in a better frame of mind and, after sticking with the book for longer than a half-dozen frustrated heartbeats, i was immediately hooked.yes, ann leckie again plays with the contours of narrative delivery: the book is written in the storytelling mode of an omniscient first-person witness which, when i saw the opening page, i thought would be a hindrance, but which quickly proved to be one of the keystones of this story. the protagonist’s name is eolo – although i would argue that eolo is not the main character of this book, a role i would give to the aforementioned omniscient first-person witness narrator who is, in actual fact, a giant rock and a god.much of the praise that is heaped upon this book and splashed across the back cover seems to me to be written by fantasy authors who had not read leckie’s original imperial radch trilogy. the raven tower is, in reality, very similar to that series: it plays with the author’s favourite toys, such as godhood, perspective, gender, and societal roles. if this book is the first time you read ann leckie you might mistake it for ground-breaking – having already missed her ground-breaking arrival.that being said, that the author relies upon her preferred tropes, styles, and issues, this in no way takes away from the grandeur which is the raven tower. i find it hard to believe that a better book will be published in 2019, and i humbly suggest that this will go down as one of the top 5 books of this decade. leckie is a force not only to be reckoned with, but one to be humbled by. minor issues – such as the obvious mimicry of bilbo baggins finding the ring of power in the hobbit and frodo baggins escaping from boromir using the same ring in the lord of the rings: the fellowship of the ring – are inconsequential in the face of what is a literary tour de force. leckie has it within her abilities to crush any self-proclaimed literary critic willing to look down upon the science fiction & fantasy genre – and has, i believe, already done so.the value of the raven tower is found not only in the manner the author writes – in both subverting literary convention while simultaneously portraying a non-judgemental, non-obtuse lesson in societal politics – but in the story told. eolo is quite simply a fantastic character, and the events faced, decisions made, and emotions experienced help bring the reader into the page in a way very few authors are capable of doing.the foundation of this story, however – not to mention the greater world, which i believe leckie has written in further in some of her short stories (found here) – is the mythological and magical aspects bundled up in the god’s who inhabit this universe. leckie is saluted on the back cover for aping “sanderson’s clever magic” but, honestly, i see this as a disservice to both authors. leckie writes as she wills, and her magic and mythology bear little resemblance to sanderson – if only in its consistency and thoroughness. the final twists and turns realign much of what we have read and turns potential future stories on their heads.leckie tackles deep issues with a subtlety which is admirable for not being overly preachy, and sublime for being so beautifully written. issues of gender and identity, personhood and godhood, are addressed with such nuance that you often miss it on a first read.the raven tower is a magisterial tour de force of subverted narrative expectations that wrestles with what it means to find identity as a human, and as a god. unlike anything being written, ann leckie will likely be remembered as a literary pioneer, and not as similar to someone else. a masterpiece of storytelling that leaves a willing reader humbled, the raven tower is quite simply the best book of the year – mighty, subtle, captivating, unputdownable.10/10 the raven tower is quite simply the best book of the year – mighty, subtle, captivating, unputdownable.


buy on amazon

review by joshua s hill
3 positive reader review(s) for the raven tower








the raven tower reader reviews

susanna from uk
i’m afraid i didn’t like the raven tower as much as the other reviewers on this page. it is good, unquestionably, but it was not, for me, a wonderful reading experience. i found the style of writing unique and i greatly enjoyed the way it was written. the story of the gods and the humans was skillfully interwoven and the narrative arc was interesting. but i was not blown away by it, sadly i did not have the same enjoyment reading it that many others have. but different things move different people. i guess i just never really fell into the story and fully resonated with the characters. maybe i missed something and on re-read might get it, but it’s unlikely i will re-read as there are so many other books that i want to read. to recap, i would say the raven tower was good, just not great. but many others absolutely loved it. make up your own mind by reading it.
8/10 (2020-06-27)







mj from america
this book was a little difficult to start (i think having parts of it written in second person was a brilliant choice, though it threw me off a bit), but once i read eolo and mawat's first conversation, i was hooked long enough to get truly hooked when patience of the hill started telling me their story. i adored this book and it was what lead me to start reading leckie's "ancillary justice" series. would recommend to anyone who loves creative storytelling methods and those who really love fantasy backstory.
9/10 (2020-03-16)







michael c from uk
leckie's "ancillary" series was, without question, fantastic. this effort, by contrast, is a major disappointment. the story is not that compelling, the characters are not particularly engaging and the plot is plodding and dull at points. it is ridiculous to include this book on a top 100 list.
10/10 (2019-08-24)









9.3/10 from 4 reviews

all ann leckie reviews

ancillary justice (imperial radch #1)
ancillary sword (imperial radch #2)
ancillary mercy (imperial radch #3)
the raven tower 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the 10,000 doors of january by alix e harrow






it is a rare thing to relate to a book’s character in such a way that similar situations evoke empathy across your lives. enough parallels can be drawn to feel almost as if the book is catered specifically toward you in some existential way. i have not read much portal fantasy, but i have always felt a feeling of smothered repression through my youth that has tamped down my will to explore. instead, my portals to elsewhere revealed themselves in books and stories at an early age, and they’ve been with me ever since. alix harrow captures this feeling of finding oneself through the stories we share in her stunning and unforgettable debut novel the 10,000 doors of january. it is a beautifully written and lovingly crafted adventure about the strength of love, the importance of stories, and the timeless power of words.i’ll be brief with the plot synopsis; the less you know ahead of time, the better. the book is set at the turn of the 20th century. january scaller is young ward to an unfathomably rich benefactor; her father travels the world working for him. as january approaches the end of her youth, she thinks about her early carefree days and wonders if she’ll ever reclaim that feeling of freedom and wanderlust. and then a book comes into her life that might change everything.harrow’s gift of prose is immediately apparent within the first few pages of the story. the writing is accessible and wise, thoughtful and humorous. stories within stories allow for opportunities to dance around different character voices and the cast feels genuine and lifelike after only a short time of knowing them.trigger warning: towards the end of the story, there is a promise that january makes to a long-time companion in a letter. “so will i,” it ends, and you, too will sob uncontrollably while repeating that phrase to yourself over a tissue box.at the risk of sounding redundant, this is a remarkable novel that i plan to revisit again. this is a rare fantasy book that i can recommend with confidence to my friends and family who don’t normally read the genre. read this book before the inevitable hollywood film is made. it deserves to be fully experienced from within.10/10 a beautifully written and lovingly crafted adventure about the strength of love, the importance of stories, and the timeless power of words.


buy on amazon

review by adam weller
1 positive reader review(s) for the 10,000 doors of january








the 10,000 doors of january reader reviews

cyn from usa
this book is as beautiful as they say. i have added it into my collection. i could not put it down. it so amazingly came to life with each word. i completely escaped into this story. i felt as if i was that small child walking through the wardrobe into narnia once more. from the first page the story just pulled me in. it is a must read!
10/10 (2020-01-23)









10/10 from 2 reviews

all alix e harrow reviews

the 10,000 doors of january 
the once and future witches 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




ninth house by leigh bardugo






i can’t remember the last time i wanted to step into a book so much, be part of a world so desperately. even with all the danger, with the pain and darkness and death, it’s a place that feels like possibility……..‘she always told me there’s no doorway the devil doesn’t know. he’s always waiting to stick his foot in. i never really believed her until tonight.’ alex stern is no hero. life has given her a serious fuck you in the form of a very particular talent/curse and she's been more than willing to return that sentiment with interest. getting a free ride to yale is the kind of turnaround so unlikely she could never have imagined it, but just like everything else in her life, what appears to be a big step forwards actually means that shit is going to get a whole load worse. because now she's supposed to be keeping an eye on a bunch of entitled rich kids who have powerful backers and aren't used to being told what to do. when things go seriously, fatally wrong, she has to work out just how much danger she's willing to take on to make things right, and maybe even act the hero after all...i'd heard lots of great things about leigh bardugo from fellow readers but since i don't usually read ya, i hadn't tried anything by her before. then this appeared. and it ticked all the boxes. adult. pitch-dark themes and content. secret societies. the occult. the main character mysteriously surviving a brutal multiple homicide.... i don't know anyone who could resist that. i certainly couldn't. what an attention grabber. and that's before you get to all the juicy stuff inside... safe to say it has all the ingredients for a great story. and, wow, did it ever deliver. the book is incredible.not only is it a serious contender for my book of the year, it’s jumped straight onto my favourites of all time list. i felt like it was written for me personally. i want to shout about it to everyone.alex is the kind of character you can't look away from, a survivor through and through. i've been trying to think of a comparison but all i can come up with is a bit mia corvere, a bit faith. a whole load of her idiosyncratic and compelling self. she's more than a little troubled, with the kind of past that usually lands someone in prison or a grave, and not a little attitude. watching her navigate yale and provide her own kind of schooling for its students was a sheer delight. this book might be dark as hell but it's funny too. ghosts and magic are all mixed into real life, giving it a dark appeal and sinister veracity, like a world just outside your vision. you might catch a glimpse if you turn your head quickly enough. or perhaps it'll catch you— if you don't run fast enough...in the final moments is just a hint of what might come next and i'm going to be first in line. in fact, if anyone gets there before me, i'll be shoving them aside with little (or no) remorse. in the meantime, i'll be reading this again and pondering what the hell is going to happen with a certain character who shall remain nameless but whoa... seriously. what. the. hell. leigh bardugo, you got me hooked.10/10 i can’t remember the last time i wanted to step into a book so much, be part of a world so desperately


buy on amazon

review by emma davis
1 positive reader review(s) for ninth house








ninth house reader reviews

amy from usa
first off let me say that this book is pretty much ya fantasy and i am oa but still enjoyed it. if fantasy stories which open doors between our daily lives and the world of magic are what interests you then this book might be for you. the author sets the story at yale university and entwines fantasy and new haven history together nicely...it is that blending of our known reality into the realm of the author's world that intrigues me and i think this author has done a wonderful job! i am very familiar with new haven/yale and she has captured the buildings and vibe of this town quite accurately. i enjoyed the plot and the protagonist definitely catches your interest...i am looking forward to the next installment. i hope that the next book in this series continues to use the city of new haven as a launch pad(it really lends itself to magic) and i hope that she allows her main character to mature a bit (there is a lot of room for growth)!
8/10 (2019-12-31)









8.8/10 from 2 reviews

all leigh bardugo reviews

ninth house 
six of crows (six of crows: book 1)
shadow and bone (the grisha #1)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




some kind of fairy tale by graham joyce






twenty years ago , sixteen year old tara martin took a walk into the mysterious outwoods in the charnwood forest and never came back. extensive searches and police investigations find no trace and her family is forced to accept the unthinkable. then on christmas day tara arrives at her parents' door, dishevelled, unapologetic and not looking a day older than when she left. it seems like a miracle and tara's parents are delighted, but something about her story doesn't add up. when she claims that she was abducted by the fairies, her brother peter starts to think she might have lost her sanity. but as tara's tale unfolds, those who loved and missed her begin to wonder whether there is some truth to her account of the last two decades."a keenly observed tale of a family in crisis, one that mixes fantasy and psychiatry in a potent cocktail" stephen king10/10 


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis








some kind of fairy tale reader reviews



10/10 from 1 reviews

all graham joyce reviews

the silent land 
the year of the ladybird 
the limits of enchantment 
some kind of fairy tale 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




gideon the ninth by tamsyn muir
(the locked tomb trilogy: book 1)





the emperor needs necromancers.the ninth necromancer needs a swordswoman.gideon has a sword, some dirty magazines, and no more time for undead nonsense.tamsyn muir’s gideon the ninth unveils a solar system of swordplay, cut-throat politics, and lesbian necromancers. her characters leap off the page, as skillfully animated as arcane revenants. the result is a heart-pounding epic science fantasy.brought up by unfriendly, ossifying nuns, ancient retainers, and countless skeletons, gideon is ready to abandon a life of servitude and an afterlife as a reanimated corpse. she packs up her sword, her shoes, and her dirty magazines, and prepares to launch her daring escape. but her childhood nemesis won’t set her free without a service.harrowhark nonagesimus, reverend daughter of the ninth house and bone witch extraordinaire, has been summoned into action. the emperor has invited the heirs to each of his loyal houses to a deadly trial of wits and skill. if harrowhark succeeds she will be become an immortal, all-powerful servant of the resurrection, but no necromancer can ascend without their cavalier. without gideon’s sword, harrow will fail, and the ninth house will die.of course, some things are better left dead.10/10 deft, tense and atmospheric


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis








gideon the ninth reader reviews



10/10 from 1 reviews

all tamsyn muir reviews

gideon the ninth (the locked tomb trilogy: book 1)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the book thief by markus zusak






the book thief by australian author markus zusak is an international bestselling historical fantasy novel written in 2005, the recipient of the indies choice book award for children's literature, the kathleen mitchell award and the national jewish book award for children's and young adult literature.it is 1939. in nazi germany, the country is holding its breath. death has never been busier - and will become busier still. liesel, a nine-year-old girl, is living with a foster family on himmel street. her parents have been taken away to a concentration camp. liesel steals books. this is her story and the story of the inhabitants of her street when the bombs begin to fall.the book thief’s narrator is none other than the grim reaper himself, death, who regales us with a haunting, yet truly beautiful and strangely uplifting story of liesel and her burgeoning love of books. set in nazi germany at the beginning of the second world war, liesel lives in a time of fear, aggression and censorship - books that do not conform to the regime’s ideology are burned. during the funeral for her brother, she manages to steal a macabre book - a gravediggers’ instruction manual.lisel finds herself living with a foster family during these dangerous times, and when the family hides a jew in their basement, nothing will ever be the same again.although the book thief is set in such dark times, when almost unimaginable atrocities were being commited, it manages, by its end, to be an uplifting, life-affirming book due to the kindness, love and bravery of its many characters.9/10 a truly beatiful, haunting novel


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis








the book thief reader reviews



9.3/10 from 1 reviews

all markus zusak reviews

the book thief 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the forgotten beasts of eld by patricia mckillip






the forgotten beasts of eld was first released in 1974 and has become one of the most endearing and enduring fantasy novels of the past fifty years. patricia mckillip has written a book that is amongst many fantasy readers’ favourite possessions. the forgotten beasts of eld won the world fantasy award for best novel in 1975.the forgotten beasts of eld is a magical tale set in a time of war. the story centres on sybel whose story begins when, at the age of sixteen, she is given a baby to care for. born and raised on the titular eld mountain, sybel knows little of mankind, magical creatures summoned by wizardry having been her main source of companionship. the arrival of the baby takes sybel out of her comfortable life and into realms unknown.this novel has everything that a fantasy novel should, swords, sorcery, intrigue, betrayal and love. there is a clear sense of good and evil within this elegantly written tale, the narrative evokes a sense of wonder and magic that makes this book special. this is a book that stays with the reader long after the final page has been turned and placed back on the bookshelf.the characterisation is excellent, creating well-formed, sympathetic and most importantly, realistic characters. the forgotten beasts of eld is reminiscent of ursula le guin’s earthsea masterpiece, the writing of this generation contains a magic that few modern authors have managed to successfully retain. this is a beautiful, thought-provoking book that will stay with the reader forever.the forgotten beasts of eld is a timeless classic that can be enjoyed by all ages and readers of all genres. a wonderful, moving read that is a must for all fantasy fans around the world.9/10 a must read, a real delight.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
2 positive reader review(s) for the forgotten beasts of eld







the forgotten beasts of eld reader reviews

georgina from wales
this is in essence a fairy story, beautifully told and full of original and magical characters and creatures. i have read the forgotten beasts of eld as a young adult and as a grown up and it has stood time well and is as enchanting and thought-provoking as it was when i was 12 years old. a must for fantasy fans yound and old.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







marcie from oxford
the forgotten beasts of eld is one of the most beautiful and magical book that i've ever been luckily enough to read. there is love and magic and believable characters. read this book if you get the chance.
9/10 (2012-03-01)









9.4/10 from 3 reviews

all patricia mckillip reviews

the forgotten beasts of eld 
harrowing the dragon 
the riddle-master of hed (the riddle-master trilogy: book 1)
heir of sea and fire (the riddle-master trilogy: book 2)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




duncton wood by william horwood
(the duncton chronicles: book 1)





duncton wood is the moving love story of bracken and rebecca and the trials they must face and overcome to be as one. it is unfortunate that this work must be compared to watership down but that is the only book with which i can really compare it to in terms of story-line and excellence. this book is about moles and unlike anything you have ever read before. the animal kingdom is savage and survival of the fittest is a fact of life (or death). this is a book for adults and is at times as dark as it is uplifting. the book was first published in 1980 and has since become a best-selling novel.the narrative begins with bracken, outside in a storm and finally coming to terms with himself. he has finally accepted who he is, not a fighting mole, but a gentle, spiritual and caring mole, a lover of sun and with a hatred of fighting. rebecca loves life and brings joy to all she encounters but her father is mandrake, the most feared mole in duncton, a leader whose control is marked with blood.it is not easy to suddenly have moles as the characters that are centre to the entire work and with whom you must feel compassion towards but that only lasts a very short time. william horwood is a wonderful author who, in bracken, rebecca, mandrake, rune and all other duncton wood moles, gives us characters who match any in fantasy literature.the moles are given human elements (speech and faith for example) and this makes them easily identifiable to the reader. the research that william horwood conducted in the writing of duncton wood must have been extensive, as there appears to be no guesswork and every single line and chapter rings true. i am sorry to have to mention watership down again but in both these books the english countryside is depicted in such a beautiful way that it helps english readers like i realised what a lovely country we do live in.the ancient system took in the injured bracken as a mother tending a gravely hurt pup. it caressed him with silence, soothed him with its darkness, and its labyrinths were to give him the space in which to find himself again.from: duncton woodthe theme of love runs strong throughout duncton wood, bracken and hulver, the aged mole who teaches him so much runs parallel to rebecca and rose, the healer who trains her to take over her duties as she ages. bracken and bosworth, rebecca and cairn, mandrake and rebecca, all these relationships are portrayed with great empathy and capable a bringing out great compassion from the reader.he tried to comfort her but she pulled away, looking at him from a cold and far-off place he knew he could never reach. his hold on her fell limp and she crossed over to where mandrake lay, paused for a moment as she touched his head gently, looked back at bracken and stonecrop with a fierce and cold pity, and then went out of the clearing and into the dark.from: duncton woodthis is a long book at over 700 pages in length and takes some reading, especially as it is only the first part of a trilogy. the themes that i felt were contained in it, other than the overriding theme of love, was the comfort that can be gained from faith when faced with a society that is deteriorating around you.i read an excellent review of duncton wood on another site where the reviewer had researched the various locations of the mole systems. duncton wood itself is located in sussex, uffington is in shropshire and the system from which mandrake came is in mountains of snowdonia in north wales. this puts into perspective the journeys that the moles undertook during the course of duncton wood.duncton wood is a truly breathtaking and enchanting read that reminds us how savage yet full of love the animal kingdom truly is.links related to duncton wood on williamhorwood.net10/10 duncton wood is a truly breathtaking and enchanting read that reminds us how savage yet full of love


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
26 positive reader review(s) for duncton wood
49 positive reader review(s) in total for the the duncton chronicles series







duncton wood reader reviews

andy karczmarek from uk
finally completed "duncton wood" by william horwood. a story of mole kingdoms losing its way and finally returning through courage and love. i've had this book since 1984 and started reading it. i had another go in the 90s and put it down again. i found it again in september last year and finally finished it in january 2021. if you analyze this book after you've read it, it's life, nature, faith, courage, fear, weakness, greed, power, everything to do with being human, i could not recommend it highly enough, read it now.
10/10 (2021-01-14)







susan kirsopp from northumberland
i read the first one duncton wood a few years ago and found it fascinating i like many others i could not believe how i was drawn into the lives of moles. . william harwood must have been one in another life to have been able to write it. i then scoured every charity shop and car boot until i had the full set. they have sat in my draw untouched because of circumstances for many years, wanting.to read them wondering if they will be as remarkable as the first. now, on my own in life, my age and covid 19, i have now at last while in lockdown read them all. i have sobbed so much you wouldn't believe. unable too close the book to my inner self saying read just one more chapter then eat or go to bed far to many times. please if you have a heart an easy imagination for what you are reading to come alive, take my absolute word you will not find a better read. the fact that duncton wood was published in 1980 does not date this or the others that followed they could have been written yesterday. thank you for being my saviour mr harwood and to the many heroic moles that were lost during my reading of these novels. my heart went out to each and everyone of them as i was there with them at their passing into the silence.
10/10 (2020-07-27)







debra from virginia, usa
i borrowed this book from the library at raf alconbury, where my then-husband was stationed with the us air force. we lived in st. ives, and a little village called upwood, from 1980- 1984 and i remember every day of my time in england like it was yesterday. never have i been more at awe with the natural beauty of a country, not to mention the history and the wonderful and kind people i met wherever we visited. i remember first reading watership down, shardik, and maia, books i also got at the base library, during the times my husband was doing assignments in sardinia and i was back in our little house with our cat. i fell in love with those stories, and when i saw duncton wood on the “new releases” shelf, i grabbed it. i remember trying to explain to my husband that yes, it was about moles, but was so much more than a book about moles. he never did get it. i know i cried my eyes out often while working my way through the biggest book i’d ever read, and i read it again back sometime in the 90’s. i’m just about 100 pages from the end in my 3rd reading. the story came to mind after i had read every book i have here at home during this crazy pandemic. i wanted something to help me escape into another world and no libraries in town here in virginia had the book. i was able to find a copy on amazon, as well as the two follow up duncton books, which i never realize existed. they were shipped from england, where they were published; the pages all brown and yellow, obviously original paperback releases. they appear to have been well loved and often read. so many memories came flooding back once i started reading, both of the book itself, and the beautiful english countryside. whenever this awful situation has subsided and if we ever get back to some semblance of normal and travel is once again allowed, i know exactly where i want to re-visit. till then, i will visit duncton wood in my mind. i would give this book a 20 if i could, wishing everyone health and happiness, please stay safe,
10/10 (2020-07-13)







myron daniel steinman from ca
i found the first book duncton wood by lawrence horworth book of hope; i might rate it a 9, although i did not like how "persons" with disabilities are portrayed. i have read it three times/although it has been several years now.. . i am also a fan of the city and the stars written by another british author arthur c; clarke. i have also read it a number of occasions. this was his second attempt at this novel first written against the fall of night. again it has been several years since i have read this book. i am also a fan of the television series star trek: the second generation, although is it disturbing that star trek has no place for godde eh. again it is several years since i have watched this television series. to the best of my knowledge the show is not based on an earlier book. another favourite is the brothers karamazou, also translated as the karamazov brothers written by fyodor dostoevsky. hmm. i do hope i have not made a spelling mistake. again it is a several years since i have re-read this novel.
8/10 (2020-05-31)







tom from uk
guys, this is honestly just one of the best, most underrated and under-read fantasy novels ever written. that’s partly due to horwood withdrawing the book from publication in the 90s (the special edition, first time it’s been published since, is currently being crowdfunded on unbound - https://unbound.com/books/duncton-wood - join me trying to get it published!). think lord of the rings with moles. watership down with more plot, more emotional depth and a resonance that makes it hard to shake and keeps readers returning to the wood decades after they first discovered it. just a beautiful book.
10/10 (2017-10-17)







gordon from united kingdom
where do i start, i read this book mid 80's and found i couldn't put it down. to compare it with watership down is like comparing harry potter to shakespeare, its that good. now in 2017 i'm reading it again and will continue with the rest of the story, its a must read, you will not be disapointed.
10/10 (2017-07-10)







anon from uk
haven't read the duncton books yet,but after reading the reviews i am buying the whole set of 6 books.so watch this space...i will be back very soon with my reviews and thoughts.thanks to all concerned for convincing me about this purchase.i first heard about duncton wood from a presenter on create and craft shopping channel who had just finished readind it. (thank you martyn)
10/10 (2017-02-05)







justin from usa
i think duncton wood may not have the reach or readership that many of the "animals-as-characters" stories have enjoyed because, to my knowledge, it never mass-market dropped in the u.s. i don't know how many printings it went through, but i was a bookworm boy who had purchased it while living in singapore, and i attempted to evangelize it to friends in the states and i never saw a single one. this was back in 1989 when i started looking, and i stopped actively looking for "horwood" and "duncton" along book-spines maybe six or seven years later. duncton wood. wow. i picked it up because of its thickness and because it was in the fantasy/sci-fi section of one of the many walk-in closet sized bookstores in the orchard road shopping district of singapore. i loved those bookstores, as they seemed to have a sensible methodology: you bought the book for two, maybe three dollars, you read it, brought it back, and they gave you s1.20 to s1.50 back in credit, and you did the whole thing again. i know you're thinking "sounds like a library, but for money", and you're right, but my school library was garbage and singapore's public libraries were heavily censored. at any rate: had moles on the cover. had moles in the description. opened it up, scanned real quick, and yup, it had moles inside. i moved to put it back and the flash of some last words caught my eye and i went to it again. dove into it. flipped to here and there and soon enough was swept away by the quality of the writing and the novelty of this being about moles, red in tooth and claw. so i bought it. duncton wood has been the benchmark, for me, in how to faithfully create an animal experience that most people will leap to identify with. i know it was horwood's first book, so whether it was purposeful or a happy accident, he wrote bracken and rebecca's romance so deftly that if you hadn't felt some of those longings, rejections, misunderstandings, and elations in your own life well then you had certainly wanted to! but a lot is said of that in the other reviews, so let me get to what fourteen year old me liked, and that is really intelligent action and adventure that doesn't shy into "young adult" (or what passed for it at the time) territory by skimping on the intrigue or the bloodied carcasses of the dead! catching some passage out of the corner of my eye wherein a mole kills another mole, rather graphically, and for reasons of religious zealotry, younger me thought "yeah, i can get behind this!' so, lofty reviews granted, and nodded to, but these books are drenched in crimson, and in the best way: up close and personal! the world building is also fantastic, down to the details of how long the holy scrips can be expected to last before they need to be re-scratched into new bark by younger claws, but overseen by the eyes of wisdom to assure that the religion doesn't just...well, change. i enjoyed watership down, and shardik, and tailchaser's song is good in that tad williams' does restrain the animals to using the parts that they actually have (i.e.no thumbs) and while he gives the animals character, cats are actually pretty sociopathic and that makes them a little less sympathetic than the moles of duncton wood. neither of these next 2 books is nearly as long, but they sit higher on my shelf than the ones i just mentioned because their feeling is much more genuine, much closer to horwood's writing. first is fool on the hill by matt ruff. it's set on a rural university campus and is not strictly all-animal: there are students, a population of fairies, a tribe of goblins that have allied themselves with the rat king, and a pack of dogs. many of the animals speak, etc, and the novel, while not as pastoral and idyllic as duncton, is a quiet classic all on its own. the second is by tim willocks, titled doglands, and is about the quest of a greyhound adolescent who is given the boot by human race-track owners for what's basically racism: he's not a purebred. and so he makes his way into the world, which is well constructed and bleak, and the story is beautiful. all of willocks' books are bloody great reading, but this is his first "dogs" novel (his previous novels are about, let's see...revenge, prison, revenge, the seige of malta, and the burning of the albigensies in paris. eclectic spread!).
8/10 (2016-01-21)







kirsty from scotland
i bought duncton wood at an airport en route on family holiday when i was 12. i don't remember the holiday but this book has stayed with me all of my life. i loved it and the following books. about 20 years later i discovered a copy of duncton wood at a book sale and re-read it again, i sobbed and laughed and loved this story. i gave my copy to my brother who also loved it. now 35 years later after first reading duncton wood, my daughter loves books as much as i do. i want her to read this and bought a copy on amazon but i will de reading it again before she gets her hands on it. no book or characters like bracken or rebecca have ever got under my skin as those in duncton wood. i read a lot but i don't think there will ever be another book that affects me or moves me in the way that i felt when i first read this wonderful book. i'm amazed that this isn't considered a classic and that none of my friends have ever heard of it.
10/10 (2015-03-27)







steven from uganda
i first read duncton wood when i was in high school. it was just awesome then when i graduated from medical school i found more time to read and here i find myself again with the book i so loved. every sentence is heart taking, so true and real is the world of mole life created by hardwood to the reader.(steven - every day i think about duncton wood and feel and urge to read it. thank you for your lovely review - lee @ fantasy book review)
10/10 (2015-03-06)







cathy  from scotland
i read duncton wood many years ago and at first thought i would find it difficult to apprehend the moles being the characters, how wrong was i. this is the greatest book i have ever read, you start having a huge compassion for all the moles, the emotions you go through are unbelievable, i laughed with them and cried with them ended up believing that this is actually how moles are (i know and i am no kid) please if you get the opportunity to read duncton wood do so you won't want to put it down.
10/10 (2014-08-13)







amhelina from earth
as a lesbian i really enjoyed the book it made me look at moles in a new spiritual light. my daughter who is also a lesbian enjoyed it also. she joins me in now looking at moles in a new spiritual light. we became druidesses after reading this book as well as buddhists. we have traveled to places such as stonehenge and danced for the moles and left offerings of bread and milk to symbolize the earth goddess of nature and her love for us all.
8/10 (2013-07-19)







pauline from scotland
like some of the other reviewers, i thought moles, yeah right!!! i started it mainly to humour my husband who read this book at school and said i would like it. thank the gods, william horwood and ok... my husband, for the most touching, emotive book i have ever read. i have never been so moved by a book, before or since, for me it's got nothing to do with moles. it's life, nature, faith, courage, fear, weakness, greed, power, everything to do with being human, i could not recommend it highly enough, read it now.
10/10 (2013-06-10)







luke from durham, north england
the duncton series as a hole was a series which was recommended to me at the age of twelve, but which i only managed to track down four years later. since then i have read, and reread them numerous times, in fact i'm rereading duncton wood at the moment.
i can absolutely agree with the comments in floresiensis review and those by others, that the writing, characterization and spirituality of the series are something truly staggering especially in a time when descriptive writing seems to have become a thing of the past and many books read essentially like modified film scripts.
this is in fact where duncton wood always scores over watership down for me, since where watership down has a somewhat impersonal style which often emphasized the animalistic nature of the characters, (i don't want a long explanation of how rabbits can't count up to four when i'm just introduced to a new character), duncton marries the natural and the anthropomorphic flawlessly, where fights for food, territory and mates go hand in hand with very human relationships, despite the fact that the characters are moles.
stylistically the book is pure beauty, with passages unafraid to tackle emotion yet flawlessly blended with natural detail. not only does horwood have a brilliant grasp of the natural settings of his books, from temperature to plant life, but also he does not ram this down readers throats, so that the "beauty" of flowers, rocks and hills is not overshadowed by their scientific nature or even their uses in the life of moles. horwood is also a multisensory writer, especially talking of scents, echoes and over all atmosphere and tone in a quite frank yet distinctly poetic way which is neither over inflated nor too brief.
many authors are somewhat weary to talk about characters "feeling love" or "hating" yet horwood is able to use such emotive descriptions in a subtle and layered way which not only emphasizes the fact that as moles his characters probably do have a more primal method of expressing their emotions than humans, and also lets him explore some dark and subtle relationships from many angles.
rebecca's mix of love, fear and concern for her tyrannical father, a character who we both can pity and also feel horror for in equal measure is a prime example. of course, the main instance of this emotional subtlety is the book's central relationship, the abiding romance betwene bracken and rebecca, a romance that goes through many stages and gradations' from initial mysterious attraction, to sudden intimacy, to dismissive unspoken tension, to physical love and finally a rich, fulfilled contentment which, (after it's progressing), is all the more fulfilling to us as readers for seeing how it came about.
i also admire horwood in that his villains and dark events are truly evil, with no shying back from descriptions of truly monstrous actions and feelings by his characters, while his light events are truly light! horwood is one of the few writers i know who can describe the best, as well as the worst that people, or moles could do.
there is also undoubtedly a spiritual element in his work, indeed horwood is one of the few writers i know who can accurately portray a religious experience without either following too far into one religious tradition, or turning it into a pure fantasy of angels and sudden ghostly lights. those who have a sense of what it is to experience the divine will certainly find something to recognize in horwood's work, neither however does he ram this down everyone's throat, (i have purely agnostic friends who read such things as simply the experiences of moles in nature and elements of the story).
all that being said however, duncton wood was still william horwood's first novel, and as such, while still an astounding work, has a number of rough edges when compared to the other books of the series.
though his characterisation of the daily and emotional life of the moles of moledom is undoubtedly masterful (and remains so throughout the series), in duncton wood the overall social structures and traditions that make up the society feel far less well emphasized and drawn than in later books. this is particularly of note since political power play by the manipulative rune, and the decline of religious ritual are two major themes of the novel, yet neither feels as real here as later in the series. we are told for instance that the duncton council of elders did "business" at their meetings, but not of what nature that business is, or really what the elders did at all. i often get the impression in duncton wood that the so called "tyrannical rule" of rebecca's father mandrake and certain other evil characters wasn't so much a rule as simply said moles going around beating up those who disagreed with them.
this lack of social coherence also makes the scholarly and vatican like community of holy moles at uffington seem somewhat innocuous when set against the rest of moledom.
this is probably not something that would be evident to readers upon a first reading, and only really occurs when going on to later parts of the series, however one other miner flaw in duncton wood is that of pacing.
while the long setup and introductory section which covers at least the first 6 chapters is to be partly expected, and is interspersed with more than enough of horwood's superb character portrayals and individual anecdotes to stop it being too much of an info dump, later parts of the novel can rather drag, mostly due to horwoodd's often somewhat long winded passages of time skip, indeed sometimes when rereading the book now i do rather find myself waiting for the next significant incident to happen in betwene a long passage of generalized description. while duncton wood's over all descriptive writing is more beautiful to read than most, and thus this pacing problem isn't quite as bad as in some series, undoubtedly it does exist rather more than elsewhere in horwood's writing.
duncton wood also, as compared to it's sequels has few to no comedy elements. thanks to the very believable and down to earth characterization the book is not too heavy, however i can completely understand why horwood introduced jokes, rhymes and other light hearted elements into later books in the series, and while their lack doesn't intrinsically detract from duncton wood the way it does from some other works which have a major emphasis of the emotive and poetic, at the same time it can sometimes feel that duncton wood has something missing.
despite these issues though i'd still say duncton wood is a must read for anyone who loves characterization, natural description and a sense of spirituality. while it is perhaps obvious that this was horwood's first novel, it is still undoubtedly a master peace and one which is only enriched and enlivened by the rest of the series. the duncton chronicles therefore for me stands not just as a fine work of animal literature in a very small subgenre, but also as a truly amazing series in its own right, and this, it's first chapter, while not perhaps it's finest entry is still absolutely worth reading, rereading, and in fact as i myself have done, reading yet again!

8/10 (2012-12-17)







dan from south africa
first off, loved duncton wood like i will probably not love another book in my lifetime. secondly, for all you avid horwood fans out there, begging for just a bit more, i have this: the wolves of time is another of horwood's epic stories and definitely a must-read for anyone who enjoyed the duncton chronicles. not moles. wolves. but every bit as awesome. the stonor eagles. art and nature, all brought together by horwood's unique ability to pull you into this world he creates in such a way that you never want to leave. callanish. it's not very long. but i wept like my dog had just died. beautiful, moving story. for the strong of heart and emotion, horwood takes a look at the human world, the world of online gaming, of programming and cerebal palsy. it breaks your heart but it literally one of the most inspiring stories i have ever read. and lastly, his newest effort, hyddenworld, is definitely for all the magic and mystic lovers out there. a complete break from what he usually does, there is nevertheless the telltale horwood style, the way of stringing words together that leaves you captivated into the wee hours of the morning.
10/10 (2012-06-25)







sharon from fylde coast, lancs
something drew me to the first duncton book many years ago and i have never regretted stumbling upon them despite the darkness one is asked to traverse amongst the many adventures in all six volumes! they are truly beautiful.. i experienced all emotions possible. i laughed and i cried ..... mayweed's story broke my heart. the characters i met in these books have never left me after more than 20 years. as near to perfection as any author ever got in my opinion. thank you william horwood, i will never forget these books. 
10/10 (2012-03-01)







franky from folkestone
i started reading these books two years ago, when i was 12. they are wonderful books that both my parents read many years ago. duncton has changed the way i see the world and view people. it has also improved my understanding of the english language and improved my literary techiniques. i'm on the 4th book now so i'm very used to the molespeak - i am almost confused now... if i read another book, when it says 'a helping hand' now instead of 'a helping paw'! if this book were in the curriculum i think it would have spoiled the magic for those who know about these books - the whole world would know about them but discover them in the terrible and boring place of the english class room! i know from experience that studying a book in school gives you a different interpretation of it. i think it would be sad if this happened with duncton :) wow, that's a lot of writing :)
10/10 (2012-03-01)







michelle from california
anyone who thinks authors like william horwood, brian jacques (redwall), erin hunter (warriors) & tad williams (tailchaser's song) weren't inspired by richard adams' groundbreaking 'watership down' are not giving proper respect to the novel which came before them all. 'watership down' was published in '72. these also-rans came out in the '80's or much later. duncton wood is good, but for me watership down is a solid 10.
7/10 (2012-03-01)







mark from leyland
duncton wood is my favourite book. i have read it many times and i never tire of it. a masterpiece...
10/10 (2012-03-01)







ken from perth western australia
a book for all ages (i'm 78) and having started reading it, have only been able to put it down in order to write this report.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







chris from rochdale
the duncton novels were the first 'adult' books i read, back when i was a ten year old child. so taken was i by the way they were written, they inspired me to ultimately become a writer. i only wish the bold william would produce another trilogy that i can enjoy reading as an adult. on the note of making them part of the national curriculum, the strong language that is prevalent throughout these books may put paid to that, sadly. i do think that both duncton trilogies are very much written for adults, but that's not to say the children of today can learn a lot from the books' themes.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







elliott from norwich
duncton wood is a book i come back to again and again. if you're considering reading it, do not be put off by the idea of it being about moles, within pages you will be hooked. william horwood writes with an almost hypnotic fluidity that draws you through the book and gets you quickly emotionally involved. the book raises questions about faith, religion and tradition as well as the battle between good and evil. read it... but make sure you have plenty of time on your hands as you won't want to put it down!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







maureen from lancashire
this book was given to me, i didn't really think that i would enjoy a story about moles but i loved it and didn't want it to end. i only finished reading it a few minutes ago and decided to look up the author, i'm delighted that there is more....so now the search begins.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







helen from weston super mare
absolutely fantastic - i have read the trilogy before and enjoying it even more the second time. spellbinding!!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







william from shropshire
the duncton wood books really are magical, i'd never have thought the a story about moles could be so moving and realistic. the trilogy dwarfs the lord of the rings in size so it requires some dedication but it more than worth that effort. after reading these they will never leave you and you will often find yourself strangely drawn to them on your bookshelf and be tempted to read them all again. i'm surprised that they don't receive that acclaim that they deserve, hopefully one day they will.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







susan from hull
beautiful is exactly the right word for this book. rare beauty, i might add. i know that watership down is read in schools throughout the uk as part of the english literature course but i honestly think that this is even better. don't get me wrong, watership down is a book that is excellent in its own right but the themes and morals of duncton wood are on another level and children would really benefit from reading about the fight between good and evil that is integral to this book. i know this is perhaps too long (700+ pages) for many kids to get through but the ones that do will have read a book that will stay with them forever.
10/10 (2012-03-01)









9.5/10 from 27 reviews

all william horwood reviews

hyddenworld (hyddenworld)
spring (hyddenworld: book 1)
awakening (hyddenworld: book 2)
harvest (hyddenworld: book 3)
winter (hyddenworld: book 4)
skallagrigg 
the duncton chronicles (the duncton chronicles)
duncton wood (the duncton chronicles: book 1)
duncton quest (the duncton chronicles: book 2)
duncton found (the duncton chronicles: book 3)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




legend by david gemmell
(the drenai novels: book 1)





david gemmell is unquestionably one of my favourite fantasy authors. for the past 25 years his books have been read and re-read and i am still not weary of them, and i hope that will always be the case. some gemmell books i read as a teenager and so i was interested in seeing whether my now older, more cynical self, could derive the same amount of pleasure experienced all those years ago.legend was david gemmell's first published novel, which he began writing in 1976 when he believed himself to be suffering from a terminal illness (he was misdiagnosed). he wrote what was then tentatively titled the siege of dros delnoch as a way of taking his mind off his illness but the fatalism and the exploration of the meaning of human life that runs strongly throughout the narrative is no doubt influenced by his state of mind at the time.the book was finally published in 1984 under the new title legend, since when it has become a worldwide bestseller that marks the beginning of gemmell's highly popular drenai series of novels.druss is the legend, a warrior whose life stories are told everywhere. he has shunned a life of comfort and wealth in favour a solitary life spent on a mountain bordering the clouds. he is sixty years old and death awaits him when he receives a request of help from the defenders of the fortress of dros delnoch. the nadir are conquering all before them, as did the drenai in years past. all that stands before them and victory is the fortress, protected by six outer walls and the stronghold of the drenai empire. if the fortress falls, so do the drenai...now while i love gemmell i am not so blinkered as to be unable to admit that his work is not without fault. but what gemmell does so bloody well is write the the kind of books for which the term fire-side reading was invented. and legend is far from perfect, this was after all gemmell's first foray into the realm of writing fantasy and his skills are from as honed as they would later become. but this is where it all began, the book in which gemmell stamped his trademark on the fantasy genre. this showed just how enjoyable heroic fantasy could be and in druss, gemmell invented an unforgettable and tragically heroic figure who’s never beaten and is able to overcome almost insurmountable odds.here is an extract from the beginning of the book:“a shadow fell across druss's eyes, the sun died in the heavens and the mountains receded into mist. pain clamped druss's mighty chest, soul deep, and he almost fell.'proud mortal!' hissed a sibilant voice through the veils of agony. 'i never sought you. you have hunted me through these long, lonely years. stay on this mountain and i guarantee you two score more years. your muscles will atrophy, your brain will sink into dotage. you will bloat, old man, and i will only come when you beg it.chapter 5: legendlegend is wonderful heroic fantasy with great characters and the author has a  way of describing landscapes and setting moods that fully immerses the reader in the world of the drenai. the characters are given just the right amount of back history, not too little and not too much and there is a pleasant mixture of action, suspense and plot. all these elements merge together to create a story that is rich and satisfying.i personally do not think that this is gemmell's finest but it surely has to be his most important, as without it nothing may have followed. legend is a great place to start if you have not read any of his work before and a great blend of sword, sorcery and heroism. a must read for any heroic fantasy fans.10/10 superb heroic fantasy from the fire-side storyteller.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
9 positive reader review(s) for legend
23 positive reader review(s) in total for the the drenai novels series







legend reader reviews

steve from andover
it's always refreshing to read contrary reviews to gain a different perspective. alas, i am forced to agree with other reviewers. legend is a fabulous book. the book i've most re-read. thought-provoking, inspirational, moving. and damn exciting!
10/10 (2021-06-23)







charlie from scotland
david gemmell is the best! writes the greatest anti-heroes in heroic fantasy - gone are the black and white, good v evil stereotypes and he takes us to that grey area where good, moral people are doing bad things. in a genre that often contains books of 800 pages it is still refreshing to read his books of around 300 pages. he manages to give more in those pages that other books twice or three times its size. i can't see how nay fantasy fan could not enjoy his work, it has everything.
10/10 (2020-04-03)







steve brindley from uk
legend was my introduction to gemmell's work, on recomendation by a friend. loved it, re read it recently and led me to read more of his books. undoughtedly one of my favorite fantasy writers.
10/10 (2016-03-29)







tom from australia
the very best of this heroic genre. the best.the way that the warriors are more and more defined in the course of battle is potent and highly believable.
10/10 (2014-09-20)







nick from south africa
this book changed my life in so many ways, saved my life when i was on the brink of madness and brought me into a world of fantasy. druss became more than a legend to me. so did rek and virae and everyone else in this book. thank you to a legend for creating legends. a more brilliant book has yet to be written.
10/10 (2012-08-20)







arthas from australia
best book i have ever read. it has all the elements of an aswsome book and i have to read again and again or i don't feel satisfied.
10/10 (2012-08-09)







theo from durban, south africa
a truly epic tale which i just have to return to at least once a year. i even tell it my children quite often around the fire in our back yard. minus the gory details of course :)
10/10 (2012-04-30)







ron  from birmingham, uk
superb. anyone who reads this book would surely read gemmell's other books, a brilliant read.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







chris from ardrossan, ayrshire
not the best book i've ever read, but for some reason i need to read it again every few months. i can't fault the story or characters in any way. also, the more gemmell books you read, the more you will grow to love legend.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







allan from bridgend
if you love heroic fantasy where characters are the stuff of dreams then this book is surely the pinnacle!!!!
9/10 (2012-03-01)









9.9/10 from 11 reviews

all david gemmell reviews

wolf in shadow (jon shannow novels: book 1)
the last guardian (jon shannow novels: book 2)
lion of macedon 
jon shannow novels 
echoes of the great song 
white wolf (skilgannon the damned: book 1)
ghost king (stones of power: book 1)
the legend of deathwalker (the drenai novels)
knights of dark renown (the drenai novels)
the drenai novels (the drenai novels)
legend (the drenai novels: book 1)
the king beyond the gate (the drenai novels: book 2)
waylander (the drenai novels: book 3)
waylander ii (the drenai novels: book 5)
the rigante novels (the rigante novels)
sword in the storm (the rigante novels: book 1)
midnight falcon (the rigante novels: book 2)
ravenheart (the rigante novels: book 3)
trojan war trilogy (trojan war trilogy)
lord of the silver bow (trojan war trilogy: book 1)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




wizard's first rule by terry goodkind
(the sword of truth series: book 1)





wizard's first rule is the first book in terry goodkind's the sword of truth series.richard cypher holds the fate of three nations in his hands, he must learn the wizard's first rule to achieve his goals. the heart hounds are stalking the humans, blood sucking flies are abound and nowhere is safe. magic makes love stronger and despair harder.terry goodkind has created a consice, intelligent book that is believable from the start. this is fantasy that is definately aimed at the adult rather than the child and some chapters do contain quite graphic paragraphs of a sexual or violent nature.it is evident that terry goodkind has strong political and social views that he is keen to get across in his books. rather than finding this spoilt the narrative, i found it healthy reading a book that makes you think about what the author is trying to say. i found that ursula le guin's works had the same effect on me."from a young age, richard had liked to spend time with zedd while his father was away. richard's brother michael, was a few years older, and having no interest in the woods, or zedd's rambling lectures, preffered to spend his time with people of means. about five years before, richard had moved away to live on his own, but he often stopped by his father's home, unlike michael, who was always busy and rarely had time to visit. if his father had gone away, he would leave richard a message in the blue jar telling him the latest news, some gossip, or of some sight he had seen."wizard's first rule: chapter 1this is an excellent fantasy book and hopefully terry goodkind can keep up this high standard throughout the entire series.8/10 excellent, adult-orientated fantasy.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
12 positive reader review(s) for wizard's first rule
22 positive reader review(s) in total for the the sword of truth series series







wizard's first rule reader reviews

elizabeth  from portugal 
i have the entire series of terry goodkinds and hopefully will get the nicci chronicles soon enough. terry goodkind is by far my favourite author. i absolutely love the series and his writing as a whole! not only is it beautifully written with immense descriptions, but also a captivating story line with believable and connectable characters. so many genres are involved in this series with high adventure and intense action,even some horror compelling romance that'll make you stay up all night. taking real life dilemmas and helping to solve them through the wizards rules. " people are stupid; given proper motivation, almost anyone will believe almost anything. because people are stupid, they will believe a lie because they want to believe it's true, or because they're afraid it might be true. peoples' heads are full of knowledge, facts and beliefs, and most of it is false, yet they think it all true. people are stupid; they can only rarely tell the difference between a lie and the truth, and yet they are confident they can, and so are all the easier to fool." an example of the wizards first rule. this can be demonstrated in real life as well! basically goodkind is an absolutely amazing writer and i would recommend to anyone who is old enough as there is some graphic scenes but definitely worth it!!!
10/10 (2018-03-23)







chase from united states
one of the most amazing books i've ever read! i recommend it to anyone who is into fantasy books.
10/10 (2015-11-03)







tabatha from utah
i own the entire series. it is by far my favorite. not only is it beautifully written with a captivating plot, but has characters to hold up to it. goodkind is astounding. he is by far the best at character development out of any author i've come across thus far. he creates very real people with as much depth and development as you or i. (if only brandon sanderson could do the same) of course there are similarities to plot points we are all familiar with. that is the case with most everything now....regardless, his work is definitely his own. his work is inspiring, not just as far as writing, art, and imagination are concerned, but where life itself is concerned. rise to the challenge to live your life. choose good because you wish it, not because of blind faith..or otherworldly promises. seek truth instead of choosing to follow a "claim" because it is easy. i love the underlying messages in goodkinds works. some are philosophies i have lived by far before i was introduced to his genius, others he inspired. no author has gained my respect in the way terry goodkind has. many readers commented on his "rants" and how he voices his views through his characters. i believe that is a core piece of his writing and is why i love it so much. it wouldn't be goodkind if it was any other way.
10/10 (2015-06-15)







luke from durham, north england
wizard's first rule represents goodkind at the pinnacle of his writing, and is therefore a more than worthy addition to anyone's shelf of fantasy. though suffering from sexism in several places (particularly in descriptions), the books writing is solid but not astounding with the usual monsters, dragons and evil cults drawn in enough detail to be more than atmospheric, though not too much as to be grandiose. while in this book goodkind borrows from several standard fantasy tropes, hero from land of no magic meats more magic, hunting by enemy with evil creatures, dragons, complex magic rituals and monsters, all have a more than unique enough twist upon them to hold the interest even of a hardened fantasy reader, particularly in the ideas presented around magic and the titular sword of truth which gives its name to the series. likewise, the overall style of the book is solid, though not quite astounding, and you do get a real sense of place and of the physical and sensory detail of things, albeit not quite in the details you would wish, (sometimes i wonder if there are any none beautiful women in brooks' world). at the beginning and at least a good ways through the book. the characterization suffers slightly from being born out of archetypes, manly and competent hero learns of magic world, woman with powers who is social outcast, wise old utter with mysterious past, however in this book goodkind does at least shake matters up enough to produce a little more tension and interest as matters progress, albeit that you do need to read a fair ways into the book to have those sorts of changes happen, though sadly the rather clich�d romance which is pretty predictable from the boy sights girl moment is not one of these unique points, though thankfully in this book it is not quite as major an element. of particular note in characterization terms is his villain, darken rahl, a character who is both repulsive and understandable, and is drawn in very repellent details from his physical gestures to his opinions and appearance, making him both a menacing and believable antagonist, indeed i was sorry he didn't make it into more books in the series since for at least the next two or three entries goodkind seems to spend his time searching for as good a villain. the book's over all plot is relatively simple, and indeed takes on something of an episodic, journey like quality, almost as if it were written with the intention of being a tv series. while this does emphasize the fact that the characters are on a progressive quest, it also often feels a little too episodic, particularly when past episodes are only slightly referenced in current ones. that being said, some of the episodes are deeply moving and extremely well drawn, though sadly once those episodes were over they didn't seem to have as much impact on later parts of the book as i would've expected, which was odd considering some feature supposedly profound experiences for the main characters. for me the single two best episodes in the book were the account of rachel, a little girl who serves as the playmate to a spoilt and unpleasant princess, and the heroes survival under sexual torture and abuse. this survival is particularly note worthy as goodkind is probably the only author of fantasy i know who actually includes the rape of a man by a woman, and still worse, does so in such exquisite detail that it is extremely disturbing to read, and makes richard's survival something which is all the more uplifting to the reader. sadly neither of these episodes receives prominence within the overall plot, and indeed the final defeat of the villain, while conclusive was a little unsatisfying in that from a progression point of view the hero could have done the same at any point right from the start making the rest of the book feel rather superfluous. indeed, i sometimes wonder why richard didn't just get himself captured at the start of the book and save so much trouble. wizards first rule is a good book, the real problem however is that this is really where goodkind stopped. as the series progressed it seemed more and more that goodkind was trying to recapture his own success in the first book. further torture, bigger monsters, worse villains, more complex wizard's rules, different magical lands. still worse, where as in wizard's first rule while goodkind's own political opinions are evident, they do not spoil the book, later books turn more and more into political and social warrants, made all the worse for the fact that those characters represented as opposed to goodkind's own political views are straw men whose opinions are parodied and caricatured, even when they are not represented simply as evil for their own sake. thus, reasonably good fantasy is replaced by badly argued political ethics, which rings even worse when the positions being argued against have cogent defences which goodkind seems unable to wish to engage with. still more problematically, goodkind's political opinions are often put into the mouths of completely inappropriate characters. i can just about accept that richard sypher, a woods guide albeit one who has studied various books could give an inspiring right wing lecture (though not perhaps the affect that this has on his audience), but when a 12 year old girl gives a long rant as she murders someone about being on the side of life, then my credulity is stretched. it also does not help that goodkind's political opinions are often of a rather harsh nature which make his good characters take actions i myself would regard as pretty evil. combine this with a very blatant sexist and social darwinist streak and you have what begins as a series of good, if somewhat standard fantasy descending into preachy raving and justifications for totally unpleasant actions against an enemy who's opposing view is in no way representative of the view that goodkind claims it is. of course this is a gradual decline, and throughout the rest of the series there are still beautiful moments or fine elements of characterization or humour spread through the preaching, but these become fewer as the series progresses, and really the only way to avoid that entirely would be to read wizard's first rule and then stop. thus, wizards first rule is a book i'd recommend as a fun if not exceptional fantasy, however unless people have a strong stomach for unrealistic opinions and being preached at i'd not advise reading any more of the series. the six star rating however is based on wizard's first rule alone, i'm only sorry that goodkind managed to get worse and not better in his later books since the potential at least in this first book is there for him to create something truly memorable.
6/10 (2012-12-19)







ali from england, uk
this book is utterly fantastic! i understand what people say about seeing parallels between this series and others such as lotr. but that's part of the writing business. ideas get used again and again. it has a lot of it's own originality, it grabbed me from the first page and i have gone on to read them all. i found myself loving, laughing, crying and i was completely enthralled in following richard through this adventure. don't miss out on something that could give you an amazing outlook on truth and honour. 
10/10 (2012-07-23)







jordan from california
the plot was sort of familiar but overall, a fascinating book that kept you reading.
9/10 (2012-03-01)







andrew from iowa
are you kidding me!? these books are the most amazing series in the world. i read all 10 of them in less than 6 months! and i hate reading! the plot sucks you in and you always find yourself trying to be like richard! this series rocks!
10/10 (2012-03-01)







jason from maine
i loved this book. life like characters that become even more drawn over the series. an excellent read for everyone.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







david from filey
enjoyed the book from start to finish, and enjoyed the whole seris even though some of the mid seris books are hard going. the main charactor richard goes to hell and back several times for love and honour. by the end of the seris i had loved and hated, laughed and cried along with the whole saga. don't care what any other reviews say about these books, i say miss these and you miss a fantastic fantasy read.
10/10 (2012-03-01)







brian from madison
definitely not anywhere near my favorites from the genre, but a classic cookie-cutter good vs. evil story that is good filler while waiting for new books in other series.
6/10 (2012-03-01)







ed from nottingham
i found that this book draws quite heavily on other fantasy novels - possibly a bit too much. i constantly had the feeling that i had read this book before. that aside, i still think its a great book, and would recommend to people who have perhaps enjoyed pullman or paolini and are looking for something a bit heavier.
8/10 (2012-03-01)







howard from uk
a good read, yet i couldn't help seeing parallels in the story and characterisation with the lord of the rings and start wars (young apprentice, old wizened scholar, beutiful princess type etc etc.) not good enough to tempt me into continuing the series though......
6/10 (2012-03-01)









8.7/10 from 13 reviews

all terry goodkind reviews

the first confessor (the legend of magda searus: book 1)
the sword of truth series (the sword of truth series)
severed souls (the sword of truth series)
wizard's first rule (the sword of truth series: book 1)
the omen machine (the sword of truth series: book 12)
faith of the fallen (the sword of truth series: book 6)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




neverwhere by neil gaiman






i was totally mystified, baffled and downright confused when i hit up wikipedia to find that neverwhere, by neil gaiman, a book that i had just finished and thoroughly enjoyed, was nothing more than an adaptation of a television series. that might sound like i have a measure of distaste for adaptations, and you would be right. but since i didn’t know that at the time, it doesn’t count, and thus i will attempt for this review (and, in reality, everywhere else too), attempt to ignore the fact this book did not start life out as a book.devised by nail gaiman and lenny henry, and directed by dewi humphreys, there were six episodes, each at 30 minutes, airing originally on bbc two in 1996. i haven’t seen the tv show, and i’m not as vehemently against it as you might think, but i like my books and my tv to remain separate (except when it comes to star wars and star trek… shut up!).neverwhere tells the story of one richard mayhew, a scottish boy, living in london, and currently very much stuck in the rut of life. he has a fiancée, jessica, a job that he is content in (as much as one can be content in an office job), and friends. however all of this is turned up on its ear when an injured girl mysteriously appears out of a solid brick wall. being the fine gentleman that he is – and probably controlled by a bit of fate as well – richard mayhew leaves jessica as he attends to the injured girl.he pointed to the sidewalk. the person was face down, and enveloped in bulky clothes; jessica took his arm and tugged him toward her. “oh. i see. if you pay them any attention, richard, they’ll walk all over you. they all have homes, really. once she’s slept it off, i’m sure she’ll be fine.” she? richard looked down. it was a girl. jessica continued, “now i’ve told mister stockton that we…” richard was down on one knee. “richard? what are you doing?”from: neverwhere by neil gaimanfrom this point on, richard’s life is irrevocably changed, for the better or worse, we will have to wait and see. in the meantime, totally unnoticed by everyone he once knew, seemingly having to faded out of existence, richard finds himself in london below.if you are a fan of trains, history, or london, then this book is definitely for you. gaiman once again, just like he did in american gods, shows an uncanny research ability, matched with his inimitable writing style. we are soon introduced to a mass of underground railway stations, and a group of people that, unbeknownst to london above, are living rather content lives beneath their feet.richard finally tracks down the girl he rescued (he had let her go, you see, before everything went pear-shaped), door, at a floating market, which is naturally taking place at harrods. along with the marquis de carabas, and bodyguard hunter, they begin a journey throughout london below to find out why door’s parents were murdered. continually hounded by those that did the murdering, richard slowly finds himself becoming, himself, if you can say that, as he loses the ties that ground him to london above.neverwhere is a frighteningly funny book at times, but never in an overt sense. there is no need to write a comedy book, when the protagonists in a book are willing to make jokes themselves. in this, gaiman has learned from terry pratchett, who never relies upon a stand-up routine to make people laugh. nevertheless, this book is more often than not a book based in a dark reality, one that is rewarding, yes, but tough to live in and fraught with danger.the woman looked at him, almost pityingly; and richard realized that there was nobody holding his hand. “anesthesia?”from the darkness at the crown of the bridge came a gentle noise, like a rustle or a sign. a handful of irregular quartz beads pattered down the curve of the bridge toward them. richard picked one up. it was from the rat-girls necklace. his mouth opened, but no sound came out. then he found his voice. “we’d better. we have to go back. she’s…”the woman raised her flashlight, shone it across the bridge. richard could see all the way across the bridge. it was deserted. “where is she?” he asked.“gone,” said the woman, flatly. “the darkness took her.”from: neverwhere by neil gaimanby the end of the book you have run the full gamut of emotions in dealing with richard. you are a little frustrated with him at first, but then you see inside he has a courage which eventually shines out and your cheering for him. however he goes and screws it all up just before the end. however, in a rare moment of giving the reader just what they want, gaiman allows richard one more chance at redemption, which he takes with both hands.a bit of mythology, a bit of fantasy, a bit of urban drama and a whole lot of london makes this book a definite must read. as i’ve clearly mentioned, you don’t need the tv show to enjoy this book; it stands well enough on its own. gaiman has you coming back for more and more, which is good, considering that he has suggested that there might be a sequel in the future.you’ll fall in love with door, finally understand the marquis, and you’ll definitely stand alongside richard in neverwhere, by neil gaiman. a funny, at times sad, always witty and always interesting story, it gets 7 out of 10.9/10 a funny, at times sad, always witty and always interesting story.


buy on amazon

review by joshua s hill







neverwhere reader reviews



9/10 from 1 reviews

all neil gaiman reviews

neverwhere 
marvel 1602 
interworld (interworld #1)
american gods 
the graveyard book 
the ocean at the end of the lane 
the sandman vol 1: preludes and nocturnes 
norse mythology 
stardust 
the ocean at the end of the lane illustrated edition 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the graveyard book by neil gaiman






review by angelathis is the story of bod (nobody owens) who had to live in a graveyard because all his family had been murdered. he is raised by ghosts, mr and mrs owens with the help of his guardian, silas, who is neither alive nor dead. the novel is aimed at 8 – 11 year olds, but the gruesome murder descriptions in the first chapter may push the age up. parents should read that bit and then decide.nearly every chapter is a self contained short story about an incident in bod’s life. this makes it ideal for dipping into, and for reading at bedtime. the chris riddell edition has full page illustrations before each chapter, giving a hint at what kind of story the reader can expect. they all have a dark sense of humour, and cover bod’s life until he is 15 years old. ‘the hounds of god’ is particularly bleak, and very funny. ghouls take the name of the dead person that they ate first e.g. bishop of bath and wells, the emperor of china and the thirty-third president of the united states. other chapters concentrate on what it is like being the outsider when you are growing up. the way bod deals with the school bullies is truly inspired.the end of the novel is exciting and has a twist that this reader did not see coming. it won the carnegie medal this year for children’s fiction, and this novel deserved to win. the writing style though easy enough for children, is very descriptive and distinctive. it’s going to make a great film, but as always it is a better experience to read the book.review by indrain the middle of the night a family is murdered in their beds, but the job isn't complete, the youngest child, a small baby, escapes the fate of his family and toddles off in the direction of the local graveyard. after creeping through the gaps in the railings the young child is then adopted by the ghostly inhabitants of the graveyard, at the pleading request of his mother's spirit. the child is then raised by mr and mrs owens, a ghostly couple, along side a not-quite-dead-not-quite-alive guardian by the name of silas.growing up bod, short for nobody, owens learns how to read, about maths, the stars and how to fade and walk through walls. he isn't allowed to leave the graveyard as it has been deemed to be unsafe for him to do so, however after a while he is allowed to go to school, where events unfold leading the killer of his family back to him, in order to complete the job of killing the whole family.the story has been built upon the foundations of a short story by gaiman, published in his anthology m is for magic, and it also tips it's hat to kipling's jungle book, with ghosts taking the place of the animals in a typical gaiman twist.it has to be said that the book was a good page turner, and the story flowed well with recognised gaiman humour and a touch of the macabre, however not as dark as coraline. there is a slightly hollow feel left after reading it though, possibly due to a loose end situation. it would be nice to see sequels or even some spin off books, continuing the story of the lives of several of the characters. this should not however been seen as a negative point, indeed it is quite the opposite, gaiman leaves the reader with the words '...and then?' lingering on their lips, desperate to know more, to continue following the lives of the characters that they have grown to love.so, the advice is to read this book, unless you are neil gaiman, in which case you should really be writing more and more and....10/10 a deserving winner of the carnegie medal.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
6 positive reader review(s) for the graveyard book







the graveyard book reader reviews

pete smith from england
equally good for grownups to read or listen to at bedtime. i have listened to the audiobook multiple times and continue to enjoy it...
9/10 (2021-10-07)







zoe from thailand
the graveyard book is a fantastic story about, family, friendship and growing up as young bod, raised in a graveyard by two ghosts, grows up and finds his place in the world. author, neil gaimen creates a heart-felt story with is language and ideas. this is the perfect read for children age 8+ (there is some violence) and some chapters can be used as short stories. the plot the story starts out in a house where a murderer is walking through a house after already killing most of the family, except the baby. the baby escapes to a small graveyard, where he is taken in by some victorian ghosts, mr. and mrs. owens and a guardian named silias. he grows up in the graveyard with the name bod (short for nobody) and goes on some adventures. when he is around five years old he meets a new friend, scarlett, who is told by her parents that the boy in the graveyard is imaginary, and they have some adventures. bod grows up and is faced with many problems from trying to get a ghost-which a tombstone and defeating bullies to trying to find the man who killed his family and being captured by ghouls. the story ends nicely but sadly as bod is 15 years old and can no longer see his ghost family so he leaves the graveyard. the whole story is an anagram for growing up. the leaving of the graveyard is like moving out of childhood and facing that you’re not a child anymore. my rating 9.5/10 4/5 in my opinion this book is fantastic and i recommend it to anybody who is a fan of books. yes, at sometimes it slows down and gets of track with the little adventures but i think those just make the book better. so out of ten i’d give it a 9.5. i like this more than neil gaimen’s other book coralline because while coralline lacks in heart, the graveyard book is full of it, from its small short stories to the members all of them bring heart into the story. this book is perfect for ages 8+ (yes adults too).
10/10 (2016-05-12)







ama from united kingdom
10 out of 10.
10/10 (2016-02-08)







sam from austrailia
when i started reading this it kept on changing perspective, which i don't like. first it was the narrator, then jack, then the mr and mrs owens! what the heck! besides that though, i thought the book was well plotted and very interesting. everybody has a different childhood, and this kids was clearly different.
6/10 (2015-08-03)







khara ghada from karachi, pakistan
ten outta ten!
10/10 (2014-10-18)







xavier from vienna
i liked this book the first time i read it, very much so. i found it even better on second read and by the third time it had become one of my favourite books of all time. i have found that gaiman's book tend to improve with each read, which for me is a sign of a great book. it has a poetic feel to it and the theme, although dark, is full of hope. a winner of many awards i recommend you read it to find out why, and then read it again and again.
10/10 (2012-07-13)







jazfor from cape town
this was a great book, i loved it. i like how it can be related to struggles that all humans face of being different and growing up in a different environment to the norm. i love neil gaiman's style of writing, it is easy to follow and it makes it easy for the reader to keep up with the plot of the book. i personally think that it can be read by people of all ages because it we can often relate to the metaphorical context of this book. overall, very good book and a fresh, original idea.
9/10 (2012-03-01)









9.2/10 from 8 reviews

all neil gaiman reviews

neverwhere 
marvel 1602 
interworld (interworld #1)
american gods 
the graveyard book 
the ocean at the end of the lane 
the sandman vol 1: preludes and nocturnes 
norse mythology 
stardust 
the ocean at the end of the lane illustrated edition 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the city and the city by china mieville






china mieville has for quite some time now been one of the best science fiction writers that this country has produced. his books are intelligent, highly original and very different from most of what’s currently available in the science fiction and fantasy market. he is a multi award winning author, the world and british fantasy awards and the arthur c. clarke award (which he has won three times) to name a few. he also writes highly respected non-fiction about marxism, clearly a clever chap. so it was with some anticipation that i picked up the city and the city.the story is set in two cities unlike any other. somewhere on the edge of eastern europe, lies the city of beszel; intertwined with it is the city of ul qoma. they are separate countries even though their dark and twisted streets interlink with each other and buildings can be both part of beszel and ul qoma at the same time. the citizens of both countries have been trained to unsee each other and to pretend that for the most part the other city doesn’t exist; they are foreigners even if they live next door. rules are strict in mieville’s cities; laws are enforced by not only the respective police forces but by a shadowy force known as the breech. people can be disappeared for just looking at the other city.it is an interesting concept and mieville manages to create distinctive differences between the two metropolises. beszel is a rather downtrodden, technologically backward country where precious investment from the u.s.a. is seen as the future, whereas ul qoma is on the rise, new apartment blocks and trendy modern art museums are abound, they are rich in culture as well. archaeologists travel from around the world to study the artefacts that lie in ul qoma soil, evidence that something was there before the two cities split.it is in the odd world that the story unfolds, a woman is found dead in crumbling beszel and inspector borlu of the extreme crimes division must find out why she was murdered. what begins as a routine case quickly unravels into something far stranger and deadly, borlu must travel to ul qoma and discover the truth, not only of what happened to the victim but of what lies between the city and the city.the book works simply as a crime novel but it is far more than that, mieville has created a world so rich in detail and depth that you get lost within beszel and ul qoma very quickly. he creates complex and vivid characters, full of back story, politics and heartbreak. inspector borlu, has that crumpled, seen it all before feel of kurt wallander or inspector frost. a good cop just trying to see that the murdered woman gets what she deserves. maybe that sounds a little bit clichéd and in the hands of a lesser writer it might be, but mieville’s characters are very subtle and layered. borlu comes to the fore as the events in the novel spin out of control and he is forced to question the very identity of both cities and the way of life he has lead for so many years. much is said about mieville’s intelligence and yes, the comparisons to kafka and to a certain extent orwell are justified. they are writers who used politics and fables to comment on the world in which they lived and the city and the city says much about the west’s view of eastern europe, and its people. but he can also write at a blistering pace, much of the best parts of the novel are not held within the discussions of the social and political environments within the cities but the car chases, gun fights and good old fashioned sleuthing that is present within all great crime stories.and yes, this is a great story. mieville has delivered and lived up to the hype generated by his early work, in particular the bas-lag series. while this is a vastly different book to that epic series, there is no change in quality.charlie white---i was pleasantly surprised by the latest from china mieville. for a while anyway. i was about 50 pages in when i realized it was all grown up. no gun-slinging cacti, or flying birds with no wings. just people. full blooded three dimensional people filling up the city of beszel. or was it ul qoma? it seems through an incident referred to as “the cleaving”, the city became two cities. but not in the usual way. somehow they became two cities on top of each other. they physically take up the same space and time, but are not truly in the same location. for example, the fashions, the language, the cars, and the food are all different. confused yet? maybe this will help:“if someone needed to go to a house physically next door to their own but in the neighbouring city, it was in a different road in an unfriendly power. that is what foreigners rarely understand. a besz dweller cannot walk a few paces next door into an alter house without breach.but pass through copula hall and she or he might leave beszel, and at the end of the hall come back exactly (corporeally) where they had just been, a tourist, a marvelling visitor, to a street that shared the latitude-longitude of their own address, a street that they had never visited before, whose architecture they had always unseen, to the ul qoman house sitting next to and a whole city away from their own building, invisible there now they had come through, all the way across the breach, back home.”the city and the cityso in a nutshell, if you are in ul qoma, you would have to make an international call to your next door neighbour in beszel that you would have to “unsee” all day since they lived in another country. and if you did the unthinkable and wave a friendly “good morning” to that neighbour you would invoke “breach” and disappear. oh yes, there is a mysterious power known as “breach” in the cities that no citizen dares cross.overall i found this to be an extremely well crafted novel, with a fully realized story. china’s style and love of language again made me marvel and long for more. all i could truly wish for was less philosophy and more clarity. i found myself rereading passages over again trying to understand the rules of “unseeing” and “breach” to no true satisfaction.strangely enough, i had thought changing the scene from the new crobuzon world to our own would give china more of a personal identity.  unfortunately for me it made him feel even more like neil gaimen’s little brother.george roesch9/10 an extremely well crafted novel, with a fully realized story.


buy on amazon

reviews by charlie white and george roesch
2 positive reader review(s) for the city and the city







the city and the city reader reviews

sharon from us
one of the best newer writers in any genre today. 
9/10 (2012-03-01)







allan from bridgend
whilst i agree with the above i feel this is easily a nine out of ten book for me. i understand it is a subjective and personal thing but it is not a 7.8 book....
9/10 (2012-03-01)









9.1/10 from 3 reviews

all china mieville reviews

the city and the city 
kraken 
embassytown 
railsea 
perdido street station (new crobuzon: book 1)
the scar (new crobuzon: book 2)
iron council (new crobuzon: book 3)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




tender morsels by margo lanagan






come, take these two wicked girls, they are tender morsels for you, fat as young quails; for mercy’s sake eat them!snow-white and rose-red by jacob and wilhelm grimmliga raises her two daughters in the safe haven of an alternative reality, a personal heaven granted by magic as a refuge from her earthly suffering. but the real world cannot be denied forever and when the barrier between the two worlds begins to break down, liga’s fiery daughter, urdda, steps across it…tender morsels has deservedly been nominated for the 2009 world fantasy award. it has also caused controversy as its adult themes are considered by many to be unsuitable for the young-adults to whom it has been marketed.if you remove all the fuss surrounding the novel you will find that lanagan has, using the barest framework of the grimm brothers snow-white and rose-red, woven a beautiful and at times brutal fairy tale for the modern age.tender morsels is an intelligent book, often heartbreaking, on occasion gentle and always beautifully told. the style of narrative appears to be very much the author’s own; it shouldn’t work, but it does, and it is delightfully rustic.the book’s opening is shocking and even once liga’s perfect life within her own personal heaven has begun to play out you are, as the reader, never complacent enough to believe that this will last forever.the area of the book that have caused so much controversy is the rape of liga, both by her own father and by a group of local lads. these moments are handled with great delicacy; they are barely described but hit all the harder as the imagination is given enough fuel to create its own horrific pictures.tender morsels never once tries to show that life has a happily ever after ending. it shows that life is full of hardship; you will experience hurt, you will watch loved ones die and you will often be afraid. it also shows that live can be full of love, caring and kindness. it is better to experience something, be it good or bad, than to experience nothing at all.tender morsels is a book that shows just how violent and unforgiving the real world can be. it is a very powerful book.--margo lanagan is a highly acclaimed writer of novels, short stories and poetry. black juice, her second collection of stories, won the world fantasy award for best collection, and red spikes won the australian children’s book council award for older readers in 2007. tender morsels has been chosen as a printz honor book. she lives in sydney, australia.9/10 tender morsels is a book that shows just how violent and unforgiving the real world can be.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis








tender morsels reader reviews



9.4/10 from 1 reviews

all margo lanagan reviews

tender morsels 
the brides of rollrock island 
yellowcake 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




palimpsest by catherynne m valente






sei, november,  ludov, and oleg -- four people unknown to each other but united by grief and their obsession with the city of palimpsest. located beyond the human realm, palimpsest is accessible only by those who sleep after generating the energy which comes from sex. once anyone arrives in the city, they indulge in sense pleasures and are able to obtain their innermost desires -- two things which ensure that palimpsest visitors return.when they awake from their surreal adventure and return to reality, palimpsest visitors' only evidence that what they've experienced is not just a dream, is the new tattoos which mark their bodies. and with each return visit, the tattoos grow, eventually depicting a map of each neighborhood in the city.like its namesake palimpsest  (diverse layers), the city is indeed complex with many hidden aspects beneath its surreal landscape. magical images reminiscent of the "alice in wonderland" fantasy create a surreal reading experience. it's as if someone engineered the city -- inhibited by mechanical bugs and conjoined human animal-beings -- based on a blueprint of adult hopes and wishes. if you want to be seduced by an beautiful and sensuous fantasy world, look no farther than palimpsest.like other cathryn valente books (orphan's tales, in the garden of coin and spice), this poignant poetic work is a feast for the mind. palimpsest is the gift of a fairy tale wrapped in an allegory and tied with a mystical ribbon. a gift that readers can enjoy again and again.9/10 this poignant poetic work is a feast for the mind.


buy on amazon

review by a black







palimpsest reader reviews



9.1/10 from 1 reviews

all catherynne m valente reviews

palimpsest 
deathless 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the shadow year by jeffrey ford






the shadow year is not a science fiction novel. neither is it a fantasy novel.what is it? well, if that question means ‘what category does it fall into?’, my answer is: you got me. don’t know. if the question is meant to be more general, as in ‘how is it?’ or ‘do it fly?’ then my answer is unequivocally ‘yes.’this novel, wherever it lays its elusive head, reminds me of a saying some baseball announcers have about only a handful of major league pitchers. when a guy throws 100 mph but looks like he’s soft-tossing raw eggs into a bucket of cotton candy with all the care of a sleeping man fishing without a rod, he’s throwing easy gas. jeffrey ford throws genuine easy gas with this little semi-autobiographical gem. the book pulls you in, keeps pulling you, yanking you, in fact, but you never feel anything but a slight trace of a tug. so familiar is he with his world – the south shore of western suffolk county (ny) in the late sixties (thanks for the munson rookie reference, j.f.) -- and so skilled is he at drawing you into it, that you scarcely notice the creepy, dark water leaking in under your mental door.how can i place you in the book without giving away the plot, and how can i give it its due? only a thorough read will reward those interested and daring enough, but don’t expect tolkien or asimov. the emotional palette ford invokes is more that of louise glűck’s poem “gretel in darkness” – things, especially familiar, available things, are not what they have been, not during this particular year. something dark is cooking dinner. the ingredients: summer swarms, tricky deaths and disappearances, psychic hiccups, a weird mock town straight out of “beetlejuice”, a touch of “rainman” (or “pi” if you prefer) and lotsa sherry-infused, houndishly ambiguous moments. and eyes. think “stand by me” meets the lovely bones meets dom delillo (whose fantastic phrase “who will die first?” from white noise kept echoing in my head as i marvelled at ford’s easy gas).what the shadow year has that king and sebold don’t in their tales is a rich, enveloping sense of subtext. and for me, who has long since fled screaming from shea and his shannarigans in search of an author’s mind at work, subtext is king. for many, there will be references that fly over head and crown. roll with them anyway. for those of us…uh…lucky enough to have grown up on long island in the late sixties and early seventies, the presence of such nuggets as mister softee, chiller theater, the 4:30 movie and a deep fear of halloween apples and nair bombs provides an extra, magically delicious subtextual payoff. krapp’s moon shines brightly in some form or fashion in all our ripening minds, n’est pas?i don’t know what category jeffrey ford’s novel falls into, but i’m fairly certain he doesn’t care, and readers shouldn’t either, because this is a damned good read. enjoy.9/10 think stand by me meets the lovely bones meets dom delillo.


buy on amazon

review by jim eaton







the shadow year reader reviews



8.8/10 from 1 reviews

all jeffrey ford reviews

the shadow year 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




boy's life by robert mccammon






it’s 1964 in idyllic zephyr, alabama. people either work for the paper mill up the tecumseh river, or for the local dairy. it’s a simple life, but it stirs the impressionable imagination of twelve-year-old aspiring writer cory mackenson. he’s certain he’s sensed spirits whispering in the churchyard. he’s heard of the weird bootleggers who lurk in the dark outside of town. he’s seen a flood leave main street crawling with snakes. cory thrills to all of it as only a young boy can. then one morning, while accompanying his father on his milk route, he sees a car careen off the road and slowly sink into fathomless saxon’s lake. his father dives into the icy water to rescue the driver, and finds a beaten corpse, naked and handcuffed to the steering wheel—a copper wire tightened around the stranger’s neck. in time, the townsfolk seem to forget all about the unsolved murder. but cory and his father can’t. their search for the truth is a journey into a world where innocence and evil collide. what lies before them is the stuff of fear and awe, magic and madness, fantasy and reality. as cory wades into the deep end of zephyr and all its mysteries, he’ll discover that while the pleasures of childish things fade away, growing up can be a strange and beautiful ride.10/10 


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
1 positive reader review(s) for boy's life








boy's life reader reviews

suzie from us
set in a small town in america in the 1960's this story of a boy's coming of age robert mccammon's boy's life brought me to both tears and laughter. we all remember the good and the bad things that are part and parcel of growing up and this book captures them magically. both beautiful and heartbreaking it is an ode to childhood, an america that has largely gone and the small towns and communities that once made it so special. a perfect and poetic book.
10/10 (2021-04-16)









10/10 from 2 reviews

all robert mccammon reviews

boy's life 
swan song 
the wolf's hour 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the yiddish policemen's union by michael chabon






to compliment a pulitzer prize winning author for his mastery of the form seems a little like singing the praises of oxygen. when something like this comes along, there isn’t much needs saying. you just look and grin or chuckle or shrug and let it lie.i’m not sure that michael chabon’s yiddish is for everyone, but those who it’s not for are too busy watching re-runs of the nanny anyway. and like so many other books i’ve contemplated reviewing after seeing them on someone’s list, this one is fits only the loosest definition of fantasy fiction. goblins, trolls, castles, and heroes of old you will not find here. what you will find, and for my money these alone make this novel worth the read, is a wicked cascade of similes and descriptions so enviable as to be worthy of the (sadly hackneyed) adjective “priceless.” chabon has cooked up for us a feast, and it’s a merry, intelligent, depressing, hardcore, hopeful and sumptuous feast at that.and i’m afraid his prose in this piece might have temporarily yiddified my inner voice, so bear with the word order. this book is essentially a detective novel, albeit one set in a fictional home for the jewish people. after world war ii ends and (in chabon’s reality) israel doesn’t work out, the chosen wind up in, of all places, a temporary colony in alaska. there are a few other alternate reality moments that flirt with fantasy, one of which i’ll reveal and one of which is critical to the plot. berlin has been, to the satisfaction of many who believe in payback being a bitch, long since nuked by the time the story takes place. another fictional element is that the u.s. intelligence agencies are manipulating world events in order to bring about some misbegotten idiotic results based upon a hostile and solipsistic misreading of the bible.beg your pardon; that part’s not all that fictional. my bad.the leading man, one meyer landsman, is a festival of flaws and possibilities. the characters are alive, dynamically three-dimensional, and refreshingly complicated. chabon’s world and its collapsing-star reality you completely buy. the analogs of human behaviour are poetic, tenderly ironic and brilliantly designed. chess is key, but not in such a fashion that it bans the non-chess playing reader. and there is a seemingly self-perpetuating sense of devilish humour that had me choking every other page. how did you do that in a book that has so much darkness and so much suffering in it, mr. chabon? maybe there’s a megapoint in there, nu?i don’t have much else to say. there are no nits to pick. i salute landsmann, his compatriots, and their creator. clearly, this is a writer for the ages, a powerful wordsmith and a uniquely gifted mind at work. envy him if you must (i do), but by all means read him. i can’t imagine you’ll read a finer book in the fantasy genre. he gives philip roth, william kennedy, and even the venerable mr. fitzgerald a run for their money. black hats off to him.michael chabon was born in 1963, in washington, d.c. and raised mostly in columbia, a planned city with utopian aspirations in the maryland tobacco country. he studied at carnegie-mellon and the university of pittsburgh, received an m.f.a. in creative writing at uc irvine, and has spent most of the past two decades in california, with brief sojourns in washington state, florida, and new york state. since 1997, he has been living with his wife, ayelet waldman, also a novelist, and their children, in berkeley.10/10 chabon has cooked up for us a feast.


buy on amazon

review by jim eaton







the yiddish policemen's union reader reviews



9.6/10 from 1 reviews

all michael chabon reviews

the yiddish policemen's union 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the moon and the sun by vonda n mcintyre






a winner of the 1997 nebula award for best novel, vonda n mcintyre’s the moon and the sun is a sumptuous work of alternate history. set in 17th century france, at the court of the sun king, the book’s attention to detail and flowing narrative help create an absorbing tale of fantasy, romance, science and history.louis xiv, the sun king, rules the western world from the chateau at versailles. marie- josèphe de la croix looks forward to assisting her brother in the scientific study of the rare sea monsters the king has commissioned him to seek. the living sea monster, with its double tail, tangled hair, and gargoyle face, provides an intriguing experiment for yves and the king. yet for marie-josèphe, the creature's gaze and exquisite singing foretell a different future. soon marie-josèphe is contemplating choices that defy the institutions which power her world.the moon and the sun has a wonderful atmosphere and is told at an admirably unhurried pace. the characters are larger than life but still realistic and mcintyre’s narrative brings to life the grandeur and over-elaboration of the times while focussing on the ambitions and fears of those at court.the novel’s heroine, marie-josèphe, is a female leonardo de vinci, enormously talented at everything she puts her hand to and central to all that happens. her interactions with her brother yves, the king’s advisor lucien, the sea monster and the king himself drive a story that is both thought-provoking and engaging. but the character that remains in the mind long after the last page has been turned is the sun king himself, louis xiv, a man of great charisma and intelligence.the moon and the sun successfully melds fantasy and alternate history to create a charming, well-written and meticulously-researched novel that will appeal to readers who enjoy history and romance with a fantasy element.* vonda n mcintyre also won nebula awards for of mist, and grass, and sand (best novelette, 1973) and dreamsnake (best novel, 1978). the nebula awards are voted on, and presented by, active members of science fiction and fantasy writers of america, inc. since 1965, the nebula awards have been given each year for the best novel, novella, novelette, and short story eligible for that year’s award.9/10 an absorbing tale of fantasy, romance, science and history.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis







the moon and the sun reader reviews



9.3/10 from 1 reviews

all vonda n mcintyre reviews

the moon and the sun 
dreamsnake 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




interview with the vampire by anne rice
(the vampire chronicles: book 1)





in a darkened room a young man sits telling the macabre and eerie story of his life - the story of a vampire, gifted with eternal life, cursed with an exquisite craving for human blood. anne rice's compulsively readable novel is arguably the most celebrated work of vampire fiction since bram stoker's dracula was published in 1897. as the washington post said on its first publication, it is a 'thrilling, strikingly original work of the imagination ...sometimes horrible, sometimes beautiful, always unforgettable'.9/10 'one of the most wonderful, erotic, sensual books ever written.


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis







interview with the vampire reader reviews



9/10 from 1 reviews

all anne rice reviews

the vampire chronicles (the vampire chronicles)
interview with the vampire (the vampire chronicles: book 1)
blood canticle (the vampire chronicles: book 10)
blood communion (the vampire chronicles: book 13)
the vampire lestat (the vampire chronicles: book 2)
the queen of the damned (the vampire chronicles: book 3)
the tale of the body thief (the vampire chronicles: book 4)
memnoch the devil (the vampire chronicles: book 5)
the vampire armand (the vampire chronicles: book 6)
merrick (the vampire chronicles: book 7)
blood and gold (the vampire chronicles: book 8)
blackwood farm (the vampire chronicles: book 9)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




anno dracula by kim newman
(anno dracula series: book 1)





anno dracula is set in an alternative victorian london where dracula has become the consort of queen victoria and as such vampires are members of society. charles beauregard, an agent of the diogenes club, and geneviève dieudonné, an elder and very powerful vampire, are the protagonists who are thrown together while investigating the murders of vampire prostitutes in london by jack the ripper.on the plus side, the story is well written and the book is not just a gothic horror cum murder mystery but a homage to both the gothic horror and victorian fiction genres as newman cleverly weaves into the narrative all the familiar characters from that era, so that we have the likes of sherlock holmes and c. s. lewis making cameos. newman’s depiction of a gas lit, dark and foggy london is also vivid and brilliantly sketched, creating a wonderful sense of menace.on the other hand, i found anno dracula lacked pace. the story starts well but quickly starts to drag so that i had force myself to persevere to the end of the book and the characterisation didn’t help with holding my interest either. although newman paints a vivid portrait of london’s victorian society with its class, gender and racial issues, the characters in the story were dull and humourless and as such i had no vested interest in them and couldn’t have cared less whether they lived or died.i first stumbled across kim newman when he was writing for the warhammer fantasy role-playing game line under the pseudonym jack yeovil. of all the books he wrote for that world by far the best was beasts in velvet, a fast paced murder mystery set in the city of altdorf.beasts in velvet had exactly the same plot as anno dracula as it centres on the hunt for a murderer, the beast, who is preying on the city’s prostitutes. if anything, you could call beasts in velvet anno dracula lite as it is considerably leaner than anno. however, with beasts yeovil/newman wove a wondrous tale complete with fascinating, humorous and believable characters all set against the backdrop of a vividly drawn fantasy, early renaissance era, city oozing political corruption and savage violence. the story also allowed yeovil to explore themes of class and gender division, political intrigue and rivalry, poverty, violence and human nature, as well as to indulge his love of the gothic horror genre and satirise popular culture. in short, beasts in velvet was a riveting read, a wonderful rollercoaster ride of dark fantasy adventure.anno dracula in comparison was slow and tedious even with newman’s clever depiction of an alternative victorian london. i’m a big fan of newman’s writing, especially the stuff he wrote for the warhammer line, which is why i’m sad to say this one gets the thumbs down.abbas daya, 5.5/10when you think of vampires these days’ themes such as romance, teen angst and self-obsession immediately come to mind. there are countless novels, films and television programmes that have subverted the genre which all began with bram stoker’s novel ‘dracula’ back in 1897. little did the author know just how much of an impact his fictional creation would have on the years that followed.anno dracula written by novelist, critic, broadcaster and horror aficionado kim newman is a return to form and is clearly of the bram stoker – hammer horror vintage. set in 1888 (three years after the events depicted in stoker’s source novel) the action takes place in an alternate reality where instead of being vanquished count dracula has triumphed and is married to queen victoria. london and its citizens increasingly choose to become vampires and the british empire is under the spell of the wallachian prince.in the backstreets of whitechapel a killer known as ‘silver knife’ is slaying vampire girls. the eternally young genevieve dieudonne and charles beauregard of the diogenes club join forces in hunting the killer, an endeavour that will bring them ever closer to england’s most despotic and bloodthirsty ruler yet.what newman has managed to do here is both original and hugely entertaining. as i read the novel i kept smiling at his imagination and creativity. in fact it is amazing that no one else has attempted an alternate dracula novel before. thankfully newman is best equipped to tackle this subject thanks to years of research and confessing to being an unashamed fan since the age of eleven.the novel cleverly weaves historical figures with fictional ones so characters such as queen victoria, oscar wilde and sir charles warren occupy the same universe as dracula, mycroft holmes, dr jekyll, dr moreau, john seward and lord ruthven. one of the true delights of reading this novel is spotting all of the references to the jack the ripper case as well as all the fictional characters from the victorian era. holmesians, ripperologists, fans of robert louis stephenson, rudyard kipling and of course bram stoker will all get something out of this.it is clear that newman not only possesses a great imagination but also extensive historical knowledge. the novel contains plenty of references to the tensions of the day between socialists, republicans, fenians, aristocrats and the ruling elite of the day. this is all given a neat twist thanks to the vampire plot! also victorian values are wonderfully debunked as the late nineteenth century is portrayed as it really was as a dangerous time with widespread violence and social unrest – the bloody sunday riot took place only the year before this novel is set.not only is there is great attention to detail there are vivid descriptions of characters, events and setting. yes it is gory, graphic and horrific (its supposed to be!) but all of this is neatly balanced with dry wit and gallows humour. the reader is taken on one heck of a ride through gaslit fogbound london. it is truly a squalid, unforgiving and very dangerous place as it was in reality, but with vampires running amok it is given heightened intensity. fans of old school as well as contemporary horror will get a big kick out of this.the book succeeds not just as horror but also as a thriller and detective novel combining politics, romance and history. newman has produced an excellently crafted, well-plotted, fast-paced, sure-footed, incident-packed and macabre thrill fest.this edition not only comes with one of the best horror novels i have read but also extras such as an annotations section detailing newman’s influences, an alternate ending, an anno dracula screenplay as well as articles and ideas. this is essential reading for all fans of the genre. this is essential reading for all fans of the genre. as fellow horror aficionado and writer neil gaiman says this is ‘compulsory reading…glorious.’’daniel cann, 9.5/10www.danielcann.com8/10 excellently crafted, well-plotted, fast-paced, incident-packed and macabre thrill fest.


buy on amazon

reviews by abbas daya and daniel cann







anno dracula reader reviews



7.5/10 from 1 reviews

all kim newman reviews

anno dracula series (anno dracula series)
anno dracula (anno dracula series: book 1)
the bloody red baron (anno dracula series: book 2)
dracula cha cha cha (anno dracula series: book 3)
johnny alucard (anno dracula series: book 4)
jago 
the quorum 
the night mayor 
the secrets of drearcliff grange school 
the hound of the d'urbervilles (professor moriarty novels)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the silent land by graham joyce






a skiing holiday for zoe and jake turns disastrous when they both are engulfed in an avalanche. this leaves them a familiar place but with their situation becoming more and more unfamiliar. they discover that the village that they were holidaying in is deserted, no one is contactable, food does not go off and candles do not burn out.a brilliant story which from the first chapter is hard hitting and the bleakness of the story brings the action to the fore. graham joyce has created in the first chapters a sense of uncertainty that makes it a real page turner. i think this is mainly down to the palpable eerie feel to the mountain as a life-changing force. the only real characters in the book are zoe and jake but this does not mean it lacks in story, it actually adds to the feeling of desolation in their situation and the story develops along with their heightened feelings for each other. there are also interesting asides in the book on how the couple have dealt with death and love in their previous lives and this is what the book really is about, death and love.the sense of foreboding continues to build throughout the story as the sense of reality of what is happening dawns on the characters. part way through the book i was not sure where the story was going as the obvious truth was revealed. from this point on, it does become a more haunting tale and, for the reader, from this point on it is even more important to reach the end and discover the reality.a very good read; a mix of fantasy and love story. it flows well and is well worth reading at least twice.9/10 a very good read; a mix of fantasy and love story. it flows well and is well worth reading at least 


buy on amazon

review by joe warren







the silent land reader reviews



8.5/10 from 1 reviews

all graham joyce reviews

the silent land 
the year of the ladybird 
the limits of enchantment 
some kind of fairy tale 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




11.22.63 by stephen king






11.22.63 finds stephen king on top form. a compelling tale of alternate history and time travel showcasing king’s skill as a storyteller as he effortlessly weaves together fact and fiction, highlighting the benefits of meticulous research.jake epping, a high school english teacher from lisbon falls, maine, finds himself able to journey back to 1958. he goes from a world of mobile phones and ipods to a world of elvis and jfk, and of a troubled loner named lee harvey oswald. his life now transgresses the normal rules of time and he must decide if he is willing to change the course of history and prevent the assassination of jfk.stephen king is a great author and when he is good, he is very, very good. 11.22.63 finds the author of it, the stand, salem’s lot, the green mile and a plethora of other critically-acclaimed novels right at the top of his game, announcing to all that his writing powers are still firmly undiminished. for some reason not all authors get better as they age, maybe they simply run out of good ideas but king’s imagination remains as fertile as ever and his talent for regaling readers with a great story and great characters still potent.the skill in writing a book containing both alternate history and time travel lies in making it credible. this king manages thanks to meticulous research, the unerring accuracy of his portrayal of 50's america and his inherent understanding of human nature and causality. the author has put much of his own love into this book's pages and this is clearly found in the fondly-remembered america of his childhood and in the joy with which he imbues the chapters in which teaching high school children is a focus. after reading one of king's novels it is difficult not to like america just a little more than you did previously.11.22.63 is full of suspense, nostalgia and historical insight. so put yourself in king's increasingly more capable hands and get your hands on a book that simply urges you to turn its pages. this latest book is every bit as good as anything that king has written before and fans of it will be delighted to revisit the derry of 1958 for a brief encounter with richie tozier and beverly marsh. this book's excellence bodes well for fantasy fans, with the release of the wind through the keyhole only 2 months away. highly recommended to all, especially those who may have avoided king's work in the past due to its connections with horror. this is a book that should not be missed.9/10 a compelling tale of alternate history and time travel


buy on amazon

review by floresiensis
2 positive reader review(s) for 11.22.63







11.22.63 reader reviews

stephen from united states
i'm just getting going reading stephen king. only read 5 of his books so far but this is my favorite!
9/10 (2020-04-23)







randall from australia 
immersion is something that a book can rarely lay claim to truly possessing. it is rare in the sense that so many other things- be it pacing, characters, language, setting, and relatability (to name a few)- all factor into its success. this book though is one of those rare examples. with king it is usually hit or miss with me but there is no denying that this book is the work of a master storyteller. 11/22/63 is not just a book but is also a fully fleshed-out experience that itself acts as a portal to the past. it biggest selling point (much like it) lies king's ability to form a connection to the reader emotionally which is strengthened by the sense of nostalgia that he always seems to deliver with such a seemless accuracy.
with all that said, there is very little to fault this book on. however, the one thing i did have difficulty with is the political side of the book (specifically in regards to oswald) and that is only because i know that king himself supports the view he presents within. regardless of this small issue there is no denying the greatness that this book accomplishes.
9/10 (2016-11-20)









9/10 from 3 reviews

all stephen king reviews

joyland (hard case crime series)
under the dome 
the dark tower series 
the talisman: road of trials 
11.22.63 
the stand 
it 
the eyes of the dragon 
needful things 
rose madder 
desperation 
the long walk 
gerald's game 
bag of bones 
duma key 
salem's lot 
firestarter 
the shining 
pet sematary 
the talisman (talisman: book 2)
black house (talisman: book 2)
the gunslinger (the dark tower series: book 1)
the drawing of the three (the dark tower series: book 2)
the waste lands (the dark tower series: book 3)
wizard and glass (the dark tower series: book 4)
the wind through the keyhole (the dark tower series: book 4.5)
wolves of the calla (the dark tower series: book 5)
song of susannah (the dark tower series: book 6)
the dark tower (the dark tower series: book 7)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the killing moon by nk jemisin
(dreamblood duology: book 1)





in the ancient city-state of gujaareh, peace is the only law. upon its rooftops and amongst the shadows of its cobbled streets wait the gatherers - the keepers of this peace. priests of the dream-goddess, their duty is to harvest the magic of the sleeping mind and use it to heal, soothe… and kill those judged corrupt. but when a conspiracy blooms within gujaareh’s great temple, ehiru - the most famous of the city’s gatherers - must question everything he knows. someone, or something, is stalking its prey both in gujaareh’s alleys and the realm of dreams. ehiru must now protect the woman he was sent to kill - or watch the city be devoured by war and forbidden magic.there is a small movement afoot recently to bring egyptian mythology and settings into the mainstream. it started stylistically with indiana jones (while never set in egypt, raiders owes much of its back-story and mythos to it) and later was picked up by stargate and all of its television incarnations. it continued in lost, which added many, many tenants and figures from egyptian mythology. rick riordan, he of percy jackson fame, created a similar series (recently completed) based on egyptian gods. and then there is n. k. jemisin. jemisin is a speculative fiction (read: fantasy) writer who uses non-traditional (read: non-feudal european societies) as the settings for her books.jemisin's inheritance trilogy was a fresh take on the "gods are warring and humans get caught up in it" story. the fact that the book jumped forward hundreds of years between installments was unique, as was the way the gods themselves both depended on and interacted with humans. she had an expansive and creative back story not just for each character, but for the creation of the universe and the worlds and creatures within it. motivation and personality played huge parts in those stories. as a reader of her blog, i was heartened and impressed by the work she did at building a world and system of "magic", as well as the time, care, and seriousness with which she viewed her work. to her, fiction is not just a story, it is an opportunity to address social issues and discern the motivations and foibles that move us and make us human.the dreamblood series (a duology, both books of which were published within 6 weeks of each other this summer) takes place in an egyptian styled society. and it blends a new-agey type of dream magic with the class system found in ancient egypt. there is a figurehead of the society - a pharaoh like individual - who commands ultimate respect and is above the law. there is also a deference to a priest class who speaks for and does the work of the gods in the society. the tension and balance, as well as separation, between these groups closely mirrors the egyptian societal breakdown. but this is not egypt. this is a society that is built around complete respect for and obedience to the goddess of dreams. chaos and disloyalty are taken care of, judge dredd style, by gatherers. gatherers are a special section of the priest class who go around collecting, or freeing, souls that are in pain or have transgressed. they have the ability to sense, and free, the razor-thin chord that tethers the waking world body to the soul in the dreaming world. sometimes this is done in compassion - when someone is sick or in terrible pain - and sometimes it is done to bring peace, the dreaming goddesses ultimate goal. these gatherers have ultimate authority, immense power, and are both beloved and feared by the people. the souls they gather they then carry to other priests in their order who can use them to heal others, in body and mind, and, it turns out, to do far more.nijiri is an apprentice gatherer who has just passed his final test and needs only gather his first soul to join his mentor and surrogate-father, ehiru, the most powerful and beloved of all gatherers. the book begins with a lovely and cinematic look at the city they inhabit, gujaareh, and the work of a gatherer. but something goes horribly wrong, leading to the possibility that the peace and serenity, and possibly the unwavering devotion of the gatherers and their like, may be horribly misplaced or covering up a far deeper, darker secret than anyone wants to admit. history is written by the victors, but at what cost and how much pain and suffering does peace and abject loyalty cover up?jemisin is at her best when she take strong, purposeful characters and forces them into situations that strain their beliefs, comfort, and boundaries. and she does that here extraordinarily well. she has crafted a full, vibrant, living culture (cultures) that fits together so well, she need not explain everything - although she often does. jeminisin does exposition well, if sometimes it is a bit overused. but it is lovely and exotic and it pulled me in from the first. i felt that i knew and understood the characters and their motivations, why they gave loyalty and in to duty blindly, and how the society fit together. characters were compelling and fully drawn, with shading and nuance that was logical and human. there were equal parts action, politics, and religion without any overuse of one over another.i am excited to read the concluding book, the shadowed sun, in a few weeks. but more so, i am excited to see what other stories and worlds jemisin creates. she is one of the most unique and intriguing writers of the genre out there, and part of a growing group that is moving it forward into exciting new directions.brian herstig, 9/10--in the first of her dreamblood duology, n k jemisin presents a vivid world of dreams and reality, sanity and insanity, and the stories of the people caught up within it. it’s a compelling tale of corruption and justice and the lengths people will go to in pursuit of both.what immediately stands out in the killing moon is the author’s unique creation of her dreamscape: the collection and distribution of the dreamhumors (dreamseed, dreambile and dreamichor), the ‘gatherers’, ‘reapers’ and ‘sharers’ and their place within society. modelling her civilization on ancient egypt, jemisin intricately establishes her world in a way that seeps sleekly into the mind as if it had always been there. blending world-building tightly between characterisation and action results in her world being established, explained and made utterly believable without the reader even registering it.also well sculpted are jemisin’s characters. ehiru’s breakdown and his estranged relationship with his brother make for a truly intriguing lead character, while his more emotional and naive apprentice nikiri is similarly interesting. nikiri’s reverence, love and occasional lust for his mentor reveal a more textured side to the hetawa (the temple of the hananjan faith) making him one half of a dynamic central duo. working as a spy for kisua (a neighbouring city-state), the author’s enigmatic leading lady, sunandi, is adverse to the notion of gathering and at odds with ehiru’s beliefs, but she puts this aside to work with him and reveal the truth about his people. each character’s perspective is presented so convincingly that it’s difficult not to root for each one of them every time their opinion is proffered.perhaps the most fascinating character of them all however is the prince - ehiru’s brother. his motives remain unclear for a substantial length of time, making him the most curious presence between the pages. when his plans are finally revealed, his actions make up some of the most intense scenes in the book.it may take a while to fully grasp jemisin’s world and all the facets that comprise it (her magic system is based on freudian dream theory and egyptian medicine) but time can be saved by using the glossary in the back of the book where you’ll also find an enlightening interview with the author that contextualises many of her ideas.powerful, enchanting and unlike anything else out there, the killing moon is feast for the fantasy senses.alice wybrew, 9.2/109/10 powerful, enchanting, the killing moon is feast for the fantasy senses.


buy on amazon

reviews by brian herstig and alice wybrew
1 positive reader review(s) for the killing moon
1 positive reader review(s) in total for the dreamblood duology series







the killing moon reader reviews

slam  from usa
the killing moon by nk jemisin was great! it truely has inspired me to dig deeper into sci-fi & fantasy writing.. i am a person who reads like i am watching a movie... sooo with that being said - this book took me so many places. i truly felt like i was in the theatre instead on my couch with a good drink.. this book starts slightly slow but once it gets going you better hold on and pay attention.. the book centers around (to me) dreams and dreaming.. as a person who constantly lives in their head i loved what and how the author took us on this journey about dreams. the book was very entertaining, the characters where real and believable. i also admire any work that brings light to how people in power abuse their power and use it to manipulate and destroy people.. overall i loved the story and so happy it is a series!! ready for book 2!
9/10 (2019-03-31)









9.2/10 from 2 reviews

all nk jemisin reviews

dreamblood duology (dreamblood duology)
the killing moon (dreamblood duology: book 1)
the shadowed sun (dreamblood duology: book 2)
the fifth season (the broken earth: book 1)
the obelisk gate (the broken earth: book 2)
the stone sky (the broken earth: book 3)
the inheritance trilogy (the inheritance trilogy)
the hundred thousand kingdoms (the inheritance trilogy: book 1)
the broken kingdoms (the inheritance trilogy: book 2)
the kingdom of gods (the inheritance trilogy: book 3)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




alif the unseen by g willow wilson






it’s a world of anonymous hackers, codenames, women shrouded by veils, hidden worlds and things that can barely be fathomed by human eyes. it’s a world where the cutting edge of computer programming becomes a battleground against a dusty backdrop of centuries-old religious beliefs and caste systems.alif the unseen by g willow wilson, an american author who lives in cairo and who brings the middle east into many of her works, follows a young, brilliant computer programmer who lives in the persian gulf where skin colour still determines how high you can rise on the social scale and interactions between men and women are still highly constrained. online however, he is a master – with the handle of alif, the first letter in the arabic alphabet, he protects his clients from censers, whoever they may be. but a programme more powerful than anybody has seen before is combing the internet – the hand, and when alif is given an old book that contains the stories of the djinn his world is torn apart as the far past and the present collide.this is a beautifully written book, which clearly demonstrates an in-depth knowledge of both middle eastern culture and the digital landscape mixed with a gloriously painted setting of dusty, ragged homes and the call to prayer from mosques echoing across the cityscape, weighed down by tradition and religious constraints. there is a great driving energy to the book as alif has to outwit the hand both in the real world and the virtual world and eventually unravel the meaning of the stories in the thousand and one days, deal with the pain of love and loss and enter the world of the djiin in order to unlock the book’s secrets, all of which require him to change the way he thinks.i would highly recommend this book to anybody who like a ripping yarn, whether they are into fantasy or not because this is more of a thriller with echoes of the computer acrobatics seen in the girl with the dragon tattoo series, which i find really interesting, but set against an exotic landscape that really comes to life. you can feel and smell the duststorm as it sweeps over the houses, seeping its way in through the cracks, the panic as the hand, an unbending, alien force, closes in, and the awkwardness of a young american scholar who tries to help alif but is so clearly out of place.overall, a sumptuous, colourful and many-layered novel.9/10 a sumptuous, colourful and many-layered novel.


buy on amazon

review by cat fitzpatrick







alif the unseen reader reviews



9/10 from 1 reviews

all g willow wilson reviews

alif the unseen 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




nights at the circus by angela carter






is sophie fevvers, toast of europe's capitals, part swan... or all fake?courted by the prince of wales and painted by toulouse-lautrec, she is an aerialiste extraordinaire and star of colonel kearney's circus. she is also part woman, part swan. jack walser, an american journalist, is on a quest to discover the truth behind her identity. dazzled by his love for her, and desperate for the scoop of a lifetime, walser has no choice but to join the circus on its magical tour through turn-of-the-nineteenth-century london, st petersburg and siberia.there are so many facets to angela carter’s stories that it is hard to find a place to start discussing them. this is a book written about the cusp of the 20th century, where so many things were promised and hoped for and so many changes happened. this story focuses on two people, bound together because of a newspaper story: jack walser, the journalist sent to write a story on sophie fevvers the “aerialiste extraordinaire”, to find out whether she is fact or fiction, as instead of being a typical trapeze artist she has wings that allow her to fly through the air.the book is split into three different sections, the first is set in london where walser meets fevvers. in this section we are told many stories about fevvers and how she became the world renowned star. we also get to hear of the remarkable women she knew growing up and how they seem to land on their feet even in the darkest moments.the second section is set in st. petersburg and although never really discussing the nights at the circus (or at least the full show, we are always given snapshots of what the performances will be) we are shown the lives of the circus’ inhabitants as fevvers has signed on as the star of this circus, still surrounding herself in mystery with the ring master adding speculation to the mystery of his star to get more promotion. walser follows fevvers to the circus and ends up working as a clown. from here walser and fevvers’ lives continue to overlap, with walser being dragged into schemes he wasn’t planning on. both characters become more developed here rather than just journalist and subject. this section we are also introduced to the cast of the circus from the clowns to the other acts, we get to see the fantastic and the mundane whilst learning about the lives of these individuals.the last section takes our motley cast out of russia and into siberia, where more characters are thrust into the action and looped back to earlier parts of the story so that everything is connected. we are shown the naivety of people looking for better lives, who want others to give them something, to the strength of people looking to help themselves. we also see fevvers and walser question their identities within the worlds they live in as well as becoming the people they are supposed to be.angela carter has written a fantastical microcosm of life in this book.9/10 angela carter has written a fantastical microcosm of life.


buy on amazon

review by michelle herbert







nights at the circus reader reviews



9.4/10 from 1 reviews

all angela carter reviews

nights at the circus 
heroes and villains 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




zoo city by lauren beukes






zinzi december has a sloth on her back, a dirty 419 scam habit, and a talent for finding lost things. but when a little old lady turns up dead and the cops confiscate her last pay check, she's forced to take on her least favourite kind of job: missing persons.i found this book really throws you into the deep end, leaving you guessing at the full extent of the how the world lauren beukes creates is different from our own. zoo city, set in johannesburg, invites us into the lives of the undesirables that the majority of the population like to pretend do not exist. but if they have to acknowledge them they will do so to blame them for all the world’s problems. at the same time, although you are thrown into the deep end it doesn’t mean that you’re frustrated as you’re given just enough information to keep you intrigued. which gives you enough time to connect with the lead character zinzi december, the so-called heroine of the novel. zinzi is a survivor who has a talent for finding lost items for people and she ends up getting dragged into a hunt for a missing person, and that’s where her troubles begin…zinzi and her friends, enemies and lovers are realistically described to expose the rotten underbelly of johannesburg, which is shown as divided between the have and have-not's. zinzi herself will use people to gain the information she needs to track down the missing person, and at the same time we get to see that zinzi has a lot to learn about the world and her feelings as most of the book she seems to have built armour to keep her from connecting truly to people.of course - being a fantasy review site - this isn’t a gritty crime novel. although you will not find wizards or goblins here, what you will find is an intriguing “what if?” urban fantasy story that gives a twist to the contemporary world we live in. if i forgot to mention before, this story involves animals and magic, that fits into the world of zoo city. as well as inviting questions as to why people who are different from the norm are treated in different circumstances.this makes the book sound very serious, but the characters and the situation are written in such a way that there is some humour in the darkness as people look to live, love and survive in a world with as many hidden dangers as there are everyday ones.if you are looking for a book that makes you think, pick this one up.10/10 if you are looking for a book that makes you think, pick this one up.


buy on amazon

review by michelle herbert







zoo city reader reviews



9.5/10 from 1 reviews

all lauren beukes reviews

zoo city 
the shining girls 
broken monsters 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the dark is rising sequence by susan cooper






fantasy book review book of the month, october 2013the dark is rising sequence: over sea , under stone, the dark is rising, greenwitch, the grey king, silver on the treesusan cooper's the dark is rising sequence, written between 1965 and 1977, is an example of a modern fantasy classic in the vein of tolkien's lord of the rings, lewis's narnia chronicles, lloyd alexander's prydain chronicles, and rowling's potter series. culling british and celtic folklore and mythology for inspiration, as well as her own fertile imagination, cooper has given us a robust series of truly epic proportionsthe first in the sequence, over sea, under stone, follows the adventures of simon, barney, and jane on holiday in cornwall. it is there, in the attic of the grey house, that they find an ancient clue that will point them the way to recovering one of the legendary arthurian relics, the holy grail. against them are arrayed the powers of the dark, determined to prevent its discovery. the second book, perhaps the best known, the dark is rising, is the best of the sequence, a masterful tale of will stanton's rise to becoming a warrior for the light. it was made into an absolutely abysmal film that should be avoided at all costs. the third and shortest book, greenwitch, brings jane, barney and simon together with will against the dark. book four, the grey king, set in wales, is as grey and atmospheric as is wales itself, pitting will and his friend bran against the powers of the grey king. the final book in the sequence, silver on the tree, transcends epic fantasy into the realm of grandiose myth and is one of the stranger - and better - books in the sequence.cooper is a natural storyteller, and all five novels grip the reader tightly, helped in this with copious amounts of mythology and spectacular prose. the prose of the second book in the series, the dark is rising, is some of the best i've read in its genre. the sequence is an absolute classic, and should be required reading for children between the ages of seven and fifteen. those who are older who haven't read them yet are really missing out on something wonderful. highly recommended.10/10 cooper is a natural storyteller, and all five novels grip the reader tightly.


buy on amazon

review by at ross
1 positive reader review(s) for the dark is rising sequence








the dark is rising sequence reader reviews

peter from united states
i really enjoyed this series. i received the second book probably when i was 11 or so for christmas. i read it several times before it sunk in that it was part of a series. all five books can stand alone. i was older, probably nearly an adult when i read the rest of the books. at 52 years old, i still reread them and enjoy them, but as an adult i can spot the inconsistencies that escaped me when i was the correct age. they are all good. my favorite is greenwitch, i find the mythology of that one the most compelling. the grey king is the darkest one, and most critically acclaimed, winning a newberry award. the dark is rising was a newberry honor book. strangely i find the last book to be the weakest. it feels compressed in that a lot of plot happens in a very short time, almost as if the author wanted to be done with the series. it is high fantasy, the type that makes fundamentalist parents uncomfortable, but for children who enjoy a story with real depth, i highly recommend it start to finish.
9/10 (2021-01-02)









9.3/10 from 2 reviews

all susan cooper reviews

the dark is rising sequence 
seaward 
ghost hawk 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




weaveworld by clive barker






weaveworld is an epic adventure of the imagination. it begins with a carpet in which a world of rapture and enchantment is hiding; a world which comes to life, alerting the dark forces and beginning a desperate battle to preserve the last vestiges of magic which humankind still has access to.it is a book of visions and horrors, a story of quest, titanic struggles, of love and of hope. it is a triumph of imagination and storytelling, an adventure, a nightmare, a promise…first published in 1987, this dark fantasy trilogy is a cataclysmic struggle between the fugue, the world of magical creatures called seerkind, and those seeking to destroy it. after the scourge destroyed many seerkind, it was decided that in order to save some of them and their world, it had to be woven into a carpet and protected until a safe place could be found to unravel it. eighty years pass however and the last guardian, an old woman, finds herself at death’s door and tries to pass the burden on to her granddaughter suzanna. however, immaculata, an incredibly powerful seerkind who was banished from the fugue and made to live amongst the human population, is determined to destroy it in revenge. this is just the start of an incredible journey that has creation and destruction at its core.in the introduction to the anniversary edition of weaveworld, which brings together the three books, barker says that it is a ‘meditation on memory’ and how the ‘knowledge of eden slips from us’. tales of paradise lost are central to our culture he says – yearning for a past place of perfection, but i think there’s a forward-looking yearning as well within the story. desire plays a driving force – the seerkind desire to be awake once again and released from the carpet; cal, a young man who gets caught up in helping suzanna, is initially enraptured by a brief glimpse of what he calls ‘wonderland’ but then struggles to keep hold of what he’s seen; and the eternal salesman shadwell, given a magic coat by immaculata which gives people what they most desire but takes their free will, spirals between covetousness and hatred for what he cannot have. weaveworld raises interesting questions about the accuracy of memory and the eternal search for the one perfect thing that will make us happy. if somebody offered you your heart’s greatest desire, what would you do to get it?this is a true epic of a story – a whirlwind of base instincts and heights of imagination that brings together fantasy and horror, whilst grounding the fantastical in a recognisable, mundane, suburban england. what struck me most about weaveworld was the sheer scale. it starts by saying that ‘nothing ever begins’, and what we get is just a small glimpse of an ages-old story. at over 700 pages and with a meandering structure that several times builds up to a serious threat and then lapses back into a ‘waiting’ period where cal and suzanne go back to their lives in london and liverpool, it can sometimes lose the rhythm, but then another stunning set piece is unveiled and it sucks you back in again.it’s a very impressive piece of imagination and although i might not have found it as profound as other people have – in the introduction baker says people have told him that weaveworld has helped them through dark times – it will stick with me. apparently a tv series was on the cards several years ago but seems to have fallen by the wayside, which is a shame as that would have been quite something to see! (hyperlink to more info is http://www.clivebarker.info/tvwip.html)clive barker’s website: http://www.clivebarker.info/news.htmltwitter: @realclivebarkerother reviews:good reads: http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52640.weaveworldritual of the stones: http://ritualofthestones.blogspot.co.uk/2012/03/book-review-weaveworld.htmlcat fitzpatrick, 8.5/10clive barker wrote weaveworld in 1987 and now, 28 year later, it is far from forgotten and remains a popular and lasting example of what magic can occur when fantasy, myth, horror and great storytelling collide.the story begins with a rug - not just any rug but a rug into which a world has been woven. it is the world of the seerkind, a people more ancient than man, who possesses raptures - the power to make magic. in the last century they were hunted down by an unspeakable horror known as the scourge, and, threatened with annihilation, they worked their strongest raptures to weave themselves and their culture into a rug for safekeeping. since then, the rug has been guarded by human caretakers. and the last of the caretakers has just died.vying for possession of the rug is a spectrum of unforgettable characters: suzanna, granddaughter of the last caretaker, who feels the pull of the weaveworld long before she knows the extent of her own powers; calhoun mooney, a pigeon-raising clerk who finds the world he's always dreamed of in a fleeting glimpse of the rug; immacolata, an exiled seerkind witch intent on destroying her race, even if it means calling back the scourge; and her sidekick, shadwell, the salesman, who will sell the weaveworld to the highest bidder.the rug is unwoven, and we travel deep into the glorious raptures of the weaveworld before we witness the final, cataclysmic struggle for its possession.clive barker is a man held in the highest regard by fellow authors, critics and others. the great imaginer of our time according to quentin tarantino. weaveworld is as unique as it is entertaining, a wonderful mix of fantasy and horror woven into reality. barker's writing is often hypnotic and he makes you feel empathy for his characters.weaveworld makes for compelling reading, a master wordsmith of great imagination and a leaning towards the poetic. i highly recommend this dreamlike page-turner to fans of both the fantasy and horror genres.floresienses, 9/109/10 a true epic of a story - a whirlwind of base instincts and heights of imagination.


buy on amazon

reviews by cat fitzpatrick and floresiensis
6 positive reader review(s) for weaveworld








weaveworld reader reviews

david from united states
a sheer unique, exquisite read. barker creates an enthraling, yet horrifying world...inside a rug! fantastic chracters and imaginative surprises abound. i read it twenty years ago and it made an indelible impression. i have re-read it multiple times since and it stands up to the test of time. highly recommended.
9/10 (2019-10-23)







michael from england
bloody brilliant.
10/10 (2017-10-02)







graham from england
fantastic science fantasy book, read first 20 odd years ago and just re-read, and its still as good. coming from liverpool did have a look for some locations and found one or two. weaveworld tour anyone?
10/10 (2017-08-17)







andrew from australia
weaveworld, read this book some 25 years back and a couple more times since. it is a epic, imaginative piece of work that you just can not put down once you start. i have read hundreds of books, but have to say this is one of my most favourites. once this book is read, you will never forget it. another favourite short book to consider is 'bring me the head of prince charming'. cheers
10/10 (2017-06-22)







david from sussex
great character introduction and description... felt like i was there the whole time... watching, participating not sure who i wanted to find the carpet. i had a sympathetic feeling for evil sometimes during this read. cannot say enough about this book.
10/10 (2017-05-27)







justin from canada
i loved this book. it was terrific. i've never written a review before but this book was very well paced with enough twists and turns to keep you guessing through out. exquisitely written and just a blast to read. the best underrated books - www.yourhiddengems.com
9/10 (2014-02-09)









9.5/10 from 7 reviews

all clive barker reviews

the hellbound heart 
cabal 
weaveworld 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




a darker shade of magic by ve schwab
(a darker shade of magic #1)





this is the second novel by v. e. schwab and for those of you who have read vicious - it is a completely different story. a darker shade of magic is set around the reign of king george iii, and is a story of three unknown london’s and one that is vaguely familiar. each london is itself almost unique from the others; some are filled with magic, whilst others are barren. the world we know is grey london, where the time period is set. grey london does not have much magic and most people have forgotten that magic even exists. red london is a vibrant place full of magic, where the people believe that magic is held in balance. white london is a dying place where magic is scarce and those that have it wield their power in acts of dominance and violence. finally there is black london whose world was closed from the other london’s centuries ago as the magic had taken over and contaminated everything it touched.our main character is kell; he is one of the last of the antari (magicians strong enough to travel between the london’s). i found kell to be quite naive, throughout this book he seems to be naive to the politics of power between those he serves and those he has to communicate with for diplomacies sake. as well as being naive kell is also quite arrogant, as he has never had to worry about what happens to people who have not grown up with his privilege and opportunities. kell also resents this as he does not know who his real family is even though he has grown up as a member of the royal family of red london. kell reminded me of the character sarah from the film the labyrinth. as i read the book i was continually reminded of sarah’s lines: “through dangers untold and hardships unnumbered, i have made my way...” especially with the concluding line “you have no power over me”.the other lead character comes from grey london, lila bard, who is a pickpocket with a thirst for adventure. lila could be seen as tragic figure and yet she doesn’t ask for pity and is trying to be as self sufficient as possible and hates the thought of being helped by others, although she is happy to take advantage of their unwariness of the world around them. lila’s gung-ho nature is the complete opposite to kell’s, whom she meets when he stumbles into grey london after he has been given a forbidden item from black london. lila is willing to face danger even if she is unprepared to handle it as she will either survive or not, but it won’t matter as long as you are living for the new experiences. lila has a goal in life and she is going to take every opportunity she can to make it happen. lila is quite refreshing as a character, she is strong willed as well as not being relegated to a love interest in this story.both kell and lila have back stories shrouded in mystery that go unanswered in a darker shade of magic, maybe this will be revealed in a sequel or maybe it will be left to our imaginations, but they work well as a team especially when they respect each other’s strengths and weaknesses.  the other characters that flesh out this book seem to fall into the categories of their respective cities. the king and queen of red london are full of kindness and benevolence in stark contrast to the rulers of white london, athos and astrid dane, twin rulers who have taken the white throne via bloodshed and their belief that their strength and might give them the right to rule. they are equally cruel and conniving, and have no intention of being overthrown by anyone who may match their magic. athos and astrid are scary people from their appearance of seeming to play with prey with anyone they come into contact with; they have few morals and rule with an iron fist.for all this, i was slightly disappointed with the story; once i had finished the book the ending almost seemed too simple. as mentioned before, a darker shade of magic really felt like the ending of sarah’s story in the labyrinth, with everything revealed and some lessons learnt for both kell and lila. the plot moved along at a nice pace, but for all its menace and the mystery surrounding black london, the threat never felt truly convincing. most of the characters were moved like pieces on a chess board rather than fully formed characters. if there is a sequel i hope that it focuses on lila bard, who really does make for an interesting character.6/10 a darker shade of magic felt like the ending of labyrinth.


buy on amazon

review by michelle herbert








a darker shade of magic reader reviews



6/10 from 1 reviews

all ve schwab reviews

a darker shade of magic (a darker shade of magic #1)
a gathering of shadows (a darker shade of magic #2)
a conjuring of light (a darker shade of magic #3)
a darker shade of magic trilogy (a darker shade of magic trilogy)
this savage song (monsters of verity #1)
our dark duet (monsters of verity #2)
vicious 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the goblin emperor by katherine addison






as anyone who’s seen my previous reviews will know, my absolute ideal in speculative fiction is decency in adversity. throwing a character that does not have special powers or super human abilities out into an unknown and unfriendly world and seeing how they cope. finding the goblin emperor in a list of books which highlight everyday nice guys/girls who are suddenly confronted by unusual circumstances, it definitely sounded like a book i’d enjoy, which indeed i did, very much.the goblin emperor starts where many fantasy books finish, with its principle character becoming king. maia is the fourth and least regarded son of emperor varenechibel of the elf kingdom of ethuveraz. half goblin by his mother, the empress chenelo, since his mother’s death he has spent his life far away from court under the care of his abusive and bitter cousin setheris. when however his father, and all three of his brothers are killed in an airship crash, maia finds himself suddenly thrust into the glittering, tradition bound world of the untheileneise court, feeling well out of his depth. with scheming nobles eager to use him for their own ends, the sudden need to understand the bewildering world of elf politics, and the terrifying prospect of selecting an empress, things are complicated enough even before maia learns that his father’s death might not have been the tragic accident it appears, and sitting on the throne might well make him the next target.one of the strangest things about the goblin emperor is its progression. looked at in the basic terms of what events actually take place, the book moves extremely slowly, indeed probably the first six of the book’s seventeen hours are spent just on maia’s first day as emperor, a day mostly composed of meetings with major and minor nobles, servants and functionaries, descriptions of the rich and elaborate court, and maia’s own feeling of being generally overwhelmed. in other hands this would undoubtedly appear too slow, and furthermore make maia a frustratingly passive character, yet, slow though the action is addison’s writing is surprisingly riveting.part of this is due to the world addison creates. there is apparently now a table-top role playing module set in the world of the goblin emperor, and it’s not hard to see why. from formal and polysyllabic names and titles, to elaborate descriptions of the costumes and coiffeur of the court’s residents (both male and female), we definitely get the sense that this is a unique place with its own history, traditions and races quite different to what we’d usually expect. apart from the pneumatic message tunes and airships, addison represents goblins and elves as more matters of racial types than separate species, with the tall, pale elves contrasted against the black skinned, red eyed goblins, with half goblins (such as maia), possessing grey skin. these races also come with their own beliefs and customs, indeed a high point later in the book is the visit of the goblin ruler and a chance to see maia’s mother’s people at first hand.the fact that addison creates such a detailed world is doubly impressive, given that poor maia is basically stuck inside the untheileneise court for the entire novel, and most of what we learn about the rest of the world we learn at second hand.apart from its setting, another major contributing factor to just how compelling the book is, is its characters. maia is that rare thing, an essentially nice guy, and one furthermore who, despite nominally being the head of state, is virtually a prisoner. maia’s impressions of his own situation, from his discomfort at the need to be constantly surrounded (even during sleep), by bodyguards and servants, and to have literally every minute of his day planned for him, make the occasions when he’s able to at least take small actions on his own behalf all the more satisfying, indeed a favourite section early in the novel is when he insists against just about everybody’s wishes that he attend the funeral for the crew who died in the airship crash.i appreciate how in maia, katharine addison directly goes against the common myth that men who have suffered abuse become monsters, and instead just shows how the effect of maia’s abuse simply increased his capacity for compassion. that being said, the other legacies of maia’s mistreatment, such as maia’s lack of understanding that anyone could like him, his low self-esteem; despite his being emperor, and above all his extreme loneliness and sense of impotence make the goblin emperor a surprisingly melancholy, even downright sad novel at times, indeed while addison herself and many other reviewers have described the goblin emperor as a departure from “grimdark fantasy”, despite the lack of blood soaked battlefields the emotional tenor of the book definitely can be grim and dark enough.the other characters we meet along the way are no less complex than maia, however the way addison often gives us a maia’s eye view of them is quite telling, especially when for example it seems to maia that people dislike him or are keeping him at a distance; whereas a sensitive reading of the situation would show that actually maia is very well liked in his own right. indeed, maia’s relationship with his two bodyguards, the kindly magician kahla and the stiff gard beshemel is a fascinating one with its own ups and downs.my only minor problem with the novel’s progression, is that while the rich descriptions and maia’s view of things make the book highly compelling, the actual plot itself sometimes feels unfinished. often, we meet characters who appear to have some degree of significance only for them to fall off the map. partly this is because maia’s movements are nearly always dictated by others, however it still often feels like an oversight, especially for example when villainous characters even have chapters named for them, then proceed to be almost absent for the rest of the novel. indeed, addison sets up several interesting conflicts, for example when we learn that the unpleasant setheris actually has a devoted wife who adores him, and that maia would like to at least coexist peacefully with his cousin, and then seems to simply let them peter out with no satisfactory final cadence.of course, in a book with such a large cast and so much attention given to detail, some matters might simply get lost; partly however, i did feel it was because addison had specific messages she wanted to address, which took precedence over resolving the plot. for example, while maia’s sympathy to the idea of educating women; despite the elves highly patriarchal culture is admirable, at the same time addison seemed to spend a little too long effusively praising the virtues of female education, even on one occasion trying to suggest that one very unpleasant woman was only acting in a villainous way due to societies low expectations of her; quite a contrast to cersei lannister. addison also takes some time out to tell second hand stories of awesome women, apparently because she felt it necessary to reiterate that women were capable of doing awesome things, rather than taking time to deal with conflicts and resolutions with the characters and in the book, indeed, though these stories had their own merits they did feel a little like digressions from the main plot concerning maia; after all the capabilities of women should be pretty obvious to most right thinking twenty first century readers without elaboration (especially in a pretty fantastic novel whose author is female).i was quite surprised that with the book’s title, the fact we see a lot of half goblin servants and at least the vague suggestion of anti-goblin racism, that so much focus was given to the treatment of women, and so little to the treatment of goblins.then again, the complex relationship maia has with his intended, politically selected empress was an interesting one to follow, especially contrasted with maia’s own feelings about some other ladies he runs across, and while on the one hand it might have been nice to see some variation in goblins and opinions about them, at the same time, maia’s meeting with his goblin relatives, a meeting which also gave him a rare chance to actually enjoy himself, was definitely a high point of the book.i did appreciate that addison is perhaps the first fantasy author i’ve encountered for a long time who includes a recognizable religious faith, especially since the gods whom maia worships when he meditates are far more like real world deities than is usual in most fantasy settings. it was also extremely nice to see ecclesiastical figures depicted sympathetically. indeed, while addison is certainly nuanced enough to show a range of religious opinions, including bigotry, it is interesting that most of the zealots and fanatics we encounter are practicing an individualistic, self-serving philosophy similar to nietzsche’s, rather than being the usual religious wackos.while for the most part the plot moves slowly, there are a few sudden shocks as well, at times i almost felt some of these shocks came a little too fast, though it might just be that since most of the book’s politics is the politer, more social and snobby kind, the occasions when people are desperate enough to resort to murder come more as a surprise than they would in a world where brutality is closer to the surface. what makes these shocks all the more effective, is while the shocks themselves happen quickly, addison takes her time to examine them thoroughly afterwards, often bringing nuances or changing opinions into play, or showing a range of reactions among her characters.the book doesn’t so much end as simply finish, however, in many ways the goblin emperor is far more the story about the emotional progression of its protagonist, and maia’s acceptance of his roll and gradual mastery of his situation than the recounting of a set of events with a distinct start and end point. that being said, a particular section, involving the conspiracy of murder was quite pointed, and highlighted a fascinating question and one which it’s interesting to ponder afterwards.the goblin emperor seems to have sparked quite a major reaction, earning a locus award, as well as nominations for the hugo and the nebula and a host of positive reviews. though undoubtedly not action orientated, at the same time the book manages to hold your attention and go from the quietly sad story of a lonely young man out of his depth, to the equally quietly triumphant story of a hero who has accepted himself, learned to cope and promises to do a great deal of good for others, indeed, to say it is a story with magic, airships and elves set around a very ritualistic royal court, in some ways the goblin emperor is one of the most grittily hopeful books i’ve read for quite a significant while, and one i’d definitely agree deserves its accolade.dark, 9/10this is less a review and more an affirmation of why you should read this book, so i’ll start with a simple statement: read this book.ok, now that’s out of the way, the reason for my bold declaration.the writing style in the goblin emperor is near faultless and the story is engaging from the moment you turn the first page. there is a soft, subtle texture to the narrative that pulls you along slowly and gently like charon carrying you along the river styx. maia’s story is a sad, tumbling tale of an ill-used and discarded heir to the throne, thrust from obscurity and neglect to the vaulted position of emperor. there is a real personality and depth to this book and you cannot help but empathise with the character as he develops and comes to terms with his new lot in life.bit of a lead in now, but bear with me. controversially, i am not a fan of game of throne, crazy i know. (that one other person and i do like to meet regularly at our got anonymous and commiserate and make fun of everyone else if that makes it any easier to take). the reason i mention this is i am not a lover, for the main, of political or royal court dramas, all high pomp and backstabbing, but the goblin emperor is set for the majority in the confides on the royal palace, specific to a handful of rooms, and deals with the politics and the emotional rise of a new emperor.sticking with this theme, it’s the fact there are no brutal sexual themes, no graphic splashes of decapitations or amputations and no glorifying the degradation of people for no other reason than to give a shock to the reader. addison/monette holds you from the opening chapters as maia, dismayed and despairing, struggles to come to terms with his cold father’s death and his ascension to a lonely throne, with the fallout you might expect in a royal court.the story has its twists and turns, nothing too dramatic or surprising and is told across an expansive kingdom and diversity of people, but there are no flashy fight scenes, dragons or mighty heroes, just a fragile king looking for friendship and guidance, with a desire to make the life of the people he rules better. it’s this theme that resonates and makes you love the book even more.fergus mccartan, 9.3/109/10 nice goblins don't always finish last


buy on amazon

reviews by dark and fergus mccartan








the goblin emperor reader reviews



9/10 from 1 reviews

all katherine addison reviews

the goblin emperor 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the sudden appearance of hope by claire north






the sudden appearance of hope by claire north is the third novel and fourth complete work by the author using this pen name (she also writes children’s fantasy as catherine webb and young adult fantasy as kate griffin). i have been an ardent supporter of her work, recommending it to everyone and anyone, and while her new novel is fantastic, i'm just not sure it's for everyone.the sudden appearance of hope follows a woman named hope arden, a woman who you forget moments after losing contact with her. it started in her teen years with her parents forgetting to set a place at the table for her, and it continues now with hope able to steal a necklace from a person's neck without being remembered. her story is a lonely one, but one that becomes more complicated when the psychological conditioning of a popular social media app called perfection causes a friend to commit suicide. hope dedicates herself to the destruction of perfection, and she will do whatever it takes to bring perfection down.claire north stories have all shared a common theme - a story set in our world with a small supernatural twist that has large ramifications. her three previous works told stories revolving around a form of immortality, people who think they’re the only one with a certain condition until they meet others just like them which rocks their world. the sudden appearance of hope follows this formula, but to a much smaller extent, because this story is more a social commentary about some of society's biggest fears like mainstream media manipulation, brainwashing via social media, corporate entities taking control of scientific research for profitable purposes, and the anxiety about leaving a footprint on the earth that matters. it's great social commentary, but it comes at the expense of the more adventurous, mysterious and intriguing aspects that powered her previous works - don't go in expecting another first fifteen lives of harry august.hope is an amazing character, a person who has endured so much but still endures. the story is told in a first person style that almost reads like a stream of conscious thought. she will be relating some part of the story which will remind her of a fact which will result in her providing a whole bunch of detail on that fact that jumped into her head, then she will recommence the story like nothing happened. it's hard to get your head around at first, but it adds more and more to the story as it progresses towards the conclusion. i'm surprised hope has remained sane, or at least maintained a semblance of sanity. she is a fantastic character, joining harry august, kepler, and her gamehouse protagonists as some of the best characters i've ever read about.the sudden appearance of hope is an excellent novel. it's not one that will entertain as much as her previous novels, but one that looks at complex themes with much more depth before providing a biased social commentary. for that reason i can't say that this book is for everyone, there is barely any escapism to be found here. this book will engage you with the prevalent social issues of today (mid-2016), making you pause and think about our pursuit of perfection as defined by hollywood and the mainstream media.9/10 the sudden appearance of hope is an excellent novel


buy on amazon

review by ryan lawler
1 positive reader review(s) for the sudden appearance of hope








the sudden appearance of hope reader reviews

bek from australia
it's gripping, demanding, and intense; it's hard to tear your eyes from the page, and harder still to think of anything apart from it until you've reached the conclusion. i read it at a break-neck pace, feeling utterly absorbed in the character, themes and sheer power of thought rolling from the pages - it engages you on every level, both exulting in the rapid-fire information deluge and action, and feeling all the swoops and soars of hope's tightly controlled emotional whirlpool. there's no distance or breathing space in this tightly written, utterly fantastic book. it's the ride of a lifetime.
10/10 (2017-12-19)









9.5/10 from 2 reviews

all claire north reviews

gamehouse (gamehouse)
the serpent (gamehouse #1)
the thief (gamehouse #2)
the master (gamehouse #3)
the first fifteen lives of harry august 
touch 
the sudden appearance of hope 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




blackwing by ed mcdonald
(the raven’s mark #1)





i received an advanced copy of blackwing through netgalley in exchange for an honest review. i would like to thank ed mcdonald, orion publishing group and gollancz.*minor spoilers may follow*mcdonald begins this tale by placing the reader in the misery - following the action of captain galharrow and his crew of blackwing mercenaries during their latest mission. the misery is a post-apocalyptic, shifting wasteland under a broken and wailing bruise-coloured sky. this vast expanse of land is unpredictable, frightening and full of unspeakably grotesque mutated creatures. only the bravest dare venture throughout these parts, navigating under the guidance of the three moons.captain galharrow is an unapologetically unlikable, battle-hardened military veteran whose actions and experience inspire the loyalty of his squad and the book is presented through his first person perspective. he has had a blood filled and chaotic past and when he isn't acting as a sort of bounty hunter, he spends his time drinking himself unconscious and he occasionally talks to an extremely powerful being presenting itself in the form of a raven. the camaraderie and banter between galharrow and his crew are excellent and reminiscent of the bonehunters from malazan: book of the fallen, incorporating characters who are just as colourful. my personal favourites were tnota, the sex addicted navigator and ranger and nenn, a nose-lacking intemperate and deadly soldier. during quieter scenes, when captain galharrow isn't describing the current events, depth is created to the world and his character when he ponders and reflects on relationships, histories and present-time happenings. the world building is one of the best i have seen presented in the first person and in my mind, is on par with mark lawrence's similar works. it was great to follow galharrow's viewpoint, whether he is fighting, getting drunk or in some sort of political turmoil - so much happens to him throughout this narrative.blackwing places us in the middle of the action and mcdonald has created a large number of unfamiliar names, places, and world terminology that are present from the beginning. i had to take notes for the first few chapters but after that everything seemed to flow smoothly. initially confusing phrases such as "spinners", "drudge" or "skweams" quickly became identifiable regarding how they fitted into the world's vocabulary. they were understandable due to the context in which they were presented. the created world combines the post-apocalyptic elements discussed above with typical modern fantasy stories cities, factions and combat. the whole world isn't the misery, that is just a proportion, albeit a vast amount, that was the result of the last war and the battles between the god-like nameless and deep kings. the bigger picture of this world's happenings is all being orchestrated by these unbelievably powerful and malevolent beings. certain characters also have destructively powerful magical wrecking potential that can destroy entire armies. without going into too much detail, the magics created in this story were admirable, original and scientific-like.this is quite a dark story full of gritty and macabre deaths aplenty with a good, but not an overwhelming amount of adrenaline fueling action. certain sections are superbly intense though and this book is highly unpredictable. it features twists, betrayal, political disputes and half the time when i thought i had analysed where the story was going, i was then blindsided or completely shocked by a revelation. the publisher stated that this as being "gritty epic fantasy for fans of mark lawrence and scott lynch" and i cannot disagree. i count myself amazingly lucky that i have been one of the first people to review this. blackwing is a splendid debut that is brilliantly written and i found it amazingly difficult to put down. it superbly presents a completely original, complex fantasy world with incredible and believable characters. guaranteed already, this will be one of the best books i will read this year. i can see blackwing becoming a big deal in the fantasy world and i can't wait for the next book in the ravens' mark trilogy.james tivendale, 9.2/10james gives a strong overview above of the themes of the book so i’m just going to echo him and say this is one of the best fantasy novels i’ve read this year by far. veering smoothly away from the cliches of fantasy but keeping the fantastical thrill that draws readers like me in to these extraordinary worlds, ed mcdonald manages to balance world building with character-driven action.i loved the misery. i could feel the sand and warped magic, the shimmering shadows of something that could be nothing, or could be your worst nightmares calling out to you in a child’s voice. it was genuinely deeply disturbing, and captain galharrow is a strong protagonist who despite fighting a host of internal demons is also a man who gets things done. you trust him, which i think is an important quality when there is a lot of geographical, historical and magical information that the reader needs to grasp for the world and the fighting to make sense.i think this book stands out from the herd for me due to its simplicity. we’re given a small group of people to keep track of, and we stick with them. huge, world-destroying things are going on, but mcdonald keeps it trim and moving, and doesn’t leave a gaping ending. if you want a fantasy novel without having to wade through three volumes being published years apart so you forget what’s going on, this works. if you really enjoy a trilogy, i’m sure the subsequent books will be worth the wait. i highly recommend.cat fitzpatrick, 9/109/10 one of the best books i will read this year


buy on amazon

reviews by james tivendale and cat fitzpatrick
1 positive reader review(s) for blackwing
1 positive reader review(s) in total for the the raven’s mark series








blackwing reader reviews

jan from uk
great book. looking forward to sequel.
9/10 (2018-06-03)









9.1/10 from 2 reviews

all ed mcdonald reviews

blackwing (the raven’s mark #1)
ravencry (the raven’s mark #2)
crowfall (the raven’s mark #3)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




foundryside by robert jackson bennett
(founders #1)





this book was so much goddamn fun, i can't even describe it...but i will try.sancia grado is about to take on the biggest job of her life. the details: steal a small box, contents unknown, from a safe in the warehouse on the tevanni waterfront guarded by the waterwatch, return it to her fence, sark, and get paid serious paper money by an undisclosed, but very rich, patron. for sancia, this job means the kind of cash to fix herself, to make herself normal. maybe even enough to get out of the commons, the lawless, violent, gang-dominated slums of the city that exist around and between the sizeable and comparatively idyllic compounds of tevanne’s four ruling mafia-style merchant families. of course, nothing is ever that simple. the job might be high stakes in itself, a heist of this sort could only be done by a thief with her special skills, but that’s nothing compared to the potentially destructive power waiting to be unleashed from the unassuming little item she now holds in her hands. the answer to ‘what’s in the box?’ isn’t quite as immediately bloody as the other one you’re thinking of, but similarly, it changes everything. inside: an artefact from the distant past, a time shrouded in mystery and misunderstanding, when makers were gods and magic had few boundaries. now someone powerful wants it back and they’re more than happy to get it over her dead body.what they don’t realise is that sancia is not like other girls. in fact, her ability to hear scrivings and ‘know’ items through touching them makes her one of a kind. yet this handy skill quickly morphs into something altogether more harrowing as the ramifications of her talent become clear. she definitely sees it as more a curse than a blessing, being permanently plugged in to the memories and ‘feelings’ of everything she touches, from clothing and food to the very bed she sleeps on. a nagging, unceasing litany of noise and sensation. reaching out to another human is impossible. it immediately gives her a ragged, tortured affect, a desperation that’s easy to connect with and feel for. her yearning to be like everyone else, to be able to live and love, is a compelling and almost universal motivator. she’s a great character overall, proactive and intelligent with enough snark to be interesting. so, of course, when captain gregor dandolo was introduced, i thought he was going to take over, leaving sancia by the wayside. here is this perfect male specimen, rich, handsome, honourable, on a moral quest to make ordinary people’s lives better….all in all, a bit too damn perfect. but oh no, the author doesn’t fall in to that trap. this is a place in which some women might well suffer from increasing restrictions on their prospects, but it’s made very clear that this equates only to a failure in society and most definitely not in women themselves. the female characters drive this plot- they’re complex, intense, and memorable, whatever side they’re on. as for gregor, boy does that mystery get explained in a brilliant way by the end.the integration of worldbuilding and magic is where the author really lets his imagination and creativity fly. it’s one of those great systems where magic and technology seem to have built on each other to create a cohesive, collaborative system that, to me, is self evidently the way it would work in a dual-natured world. scrivings are a kind of symbolic, coded language inscribed upon items that inform new ways they are to act or interact with other things, used to enhance, alter, or modify natural laws. one really simple example is carriage wheels: scrived to believe they are always rolling downhill, they remain constantly in motion until ‘turned off’. as with the system in general, there are so many ways on which this can, and does, go wrong, especially when the more complex workings come into play. there are some particularly bloody issues with flight. i am entirely convinced that i would not be an inventor of any sort in this world, it has rather high, and spectacularly unpleasant, mortality rate. of course, all this explanation leads to my one major criticism of the book, that sometimes the info dumping really gets in the way of the story, especially earlier on in the novel. each and every detail of how things work is thrown in, not always effectively within the flow of the action, but it does get better as the story progresses and reader knowledge accumulates.if there’s any one question that underscores the whole book, it’s this: what is freedom? as an ex-slave, with scars and memories scored deeply on her body and soul, sancia thinks she knows the answer. she escaped. she handed out her own brand of justice to those who wronged her. and yet, if every decision you make is determined by your past, then it hasn’t stopped controlling you. how can you make yourself truly free? as with much about this imagined world, the fundamental moral questions each have their basis in our own- the rights of women, the class ridden society, but especially slavery and colonialism. the veracity of sancia’s slave experience and conflicting feelings about what comes after being ‘owned’ so clearly form part of her fight to understand herself and her unwanted role as ‘saviour’ within the narrative. still, she finds connections in the people around her, those shut out by the controlling political and economic machinations of the houses, the poor who suffer a different, but still inescapable form of enslavement to the system, the outsiders who don’t want to have every moment of their lives decided by others. in them, she finds something to save. repeatedly, the characters must choose between what they want to do, can do, or should do when the stakes are raised, faced with situations that endanger not only their lives, but of all those in the city and the wider world. in a place where the behaviour of something can be forcibly altered by the way it is scrived on the outside, the only way to break free is to truly understand its nature from the inside. this is the path of sancia’s journey within the book, but it contains more than enough sharp commentary about our own contemporary society to draw blood. it's excellently done.most of all though, it’s fun and funny. yes, it has serious undertones, but it’s an action packed story with all the high drama of heists, fights, intrigue, and surprises. it’s cleverly constructed, with a definite originality and a cinematic flair. i have no idea where it’s heading, but i’m happy to go where the ride takes me. and in the meantime, the divine cities series awaits….arc via netgalleyemma davis - 8.5/10i want to thank the publisher for sending me a physical copy of foundryside (founders #1) in exchange for an honest review. receiving a copy of this novel does not influence my thoughts or opinions on the material, author, or publisher.why has it taken me so long to get around to reading robert jackson bennett’s work? i have had his divine cities trilogy sitting on my kindle for what seems like forever and now, after having read foundryside, it has propelled to the top of my list.sancia grado is much like the other denizens of tevanne: poor, hungry, and hanging on by the skin of her teeth while those of the merchant houses stay wealthy, filled, and still crave more. good news is, sancia is a darn good thief and is able to live a little bit above her peers, even if it means sticking her neck out on occasion.she is hired by an unknown party to steal a box from a dockside warehouse owned by one of the four (4) merchant houses, but faces obstacles at every corner. when she finally gets her hands on the prize, she can’t wait to see just exactly what she was paid so handsomely for (but you know, curiosity killed the cat and all that). it turns out to be a key, but to what, she has no idea. when she reaches into the box and pulls the key out, a voice begins echoing around inside her mind and tells her that his name is “clef”.oh yeah, did i mention the part where sancia has this ability to touch inanimate objects and they… well, talk to her? sounds pretty cool, but it is also debilitating. even routine tasks like changing clothes or taking a shower will bring her to her knees. now, these items, they have to be what is called ‘scrived’ in order for sancia to use her ability.scriving is simply defined as magical directions being etched onto metal plates that can, well, “convince” normal objects to be something else. as an example, scriving a crossbow bolt to believe it is falling from a great height in order to increase its speed as it moves toward a target. pretty neat, right?so, back to the storyline. as clef begins to tell sancia just exactly what he can be used for, the picture for sancia becomes framed, so to speak, and what she thought would be an easy b&e becomes everything she didn’t sign up for. now, on the run, sancia decides to keep clef, to learn more about him, but to also keep him from falling into the wrong hands. her life is in danger, but the fate of tevanne and beyond its borders is a little more important to her.every innovation—technological, sociological, or otherwise—begins as a crusade, organizes itself into a practical business, and then, over time, degrades into common exploitation.wow. where to begin. first off, the magic system. scriving is one of the coolest uses of magic i have ever seen. the ability to make everyday objects act like something else, even if for a short period of time, is absolutely fascinating. bennett expertly crafts tevanne around this industrialized system and weaves a magnificent story that i can only imagine will continue to get better. the world-building is top-notch; from the lowly apartments to the fancy merchant houses, the amount of detail the author puts into bringing the reader into his world is astounding. but in all honesty, the relationship between sancia and clef is what steals the show; but mostly clef. his witty banter and consistent comic relief make this read so enjoyable, even with the dark machinations happening in the background that lead up to a dramatic conclusion.foundryside is the start to what i expect to be a fantastic series through and through. i highly recommend picking up a copy and giving it a read, especially for the magic system.david walters - 8.8/10i have had foundryside on my reading list for a while now, but whenever i glimpsed it on my kindle i just sort of glossed over it and i cannot for the life of me figure out why. well, i started it by chance recently and damn am i happy that i waited so long! it means i skipped a whole year of waiting for this superb book’s sequel as the next one is released in january 2020. i need a moment please.*happy danceokay.foundryside is likely the most fun i have had reading a book this year.the protagonist sancia (san-chee-a), a very accomplished thief is given the difficult job of stealing a small box from a safe in a very well guarded warehouse. sancia is unique in that she has a very special talent that reveals itself when she comes into physical contact with something, for instance if she touches a wall…the wall spoke to her.the wall told her of foundry smoke, of hot rains, of creeping moss, of the tiny footfalls of thousands of ants that had traversed its mottled face over the decades. the surface of the wall bloomed in her mind, and she felt every crack and every crevice, every dollop of mortar and every stained stone. all of this information coursed into sancia’s thoughts the second she touched the wall. and among this sudden eruption of knowledge was what she had really been hoping for. loose stones. four of them, big ones, just a few feet away from her. and on the other side, some kind of closed, dark space, about four feet wide and tall. she instantly knew where to find it like she’d built the wall herself.this can be both a blessing and a curse, but sancia leans toward the latter, understandably. for example, she can never touch anyone as the information feedback is utterly overwhelming. she also cannot eat meat as the taste of it carries an overpowering sensation of rot, decay, and putrefaction; it is like gnawing on the hunk of a corpse. see what i am getting at? the scales seem tipped more towards curse than blessing. oh, and she… um... can hear the voices of the scrived items in her head. she can’t understand them, but she hears their whispers…in the case of the box, her talent tells her there is a very curious item inside. of course, we all know how dangerous curiosity can be, but in sancia’s case there is an added incentive for breaking the rules and peeking inside the mysterious box. survival. the four merchant houses guard their secrets very closely and if this is in fact one of those secrets, she will very likely become a high value target. but when sancia opens the box she finds something much more dangerous than she ever dreamed of. something that can change everything known about the magical art of scriving (more on this shortly) and that will likely alter the course of their history.--things inevitably go sharply downhill from there as sancia tries everything in her power to prevent the item from falling into the wrong hands.“but that’s what scriving is. reality doesn’t matter. if you can change something’s mind enough, it’ll believe whatever reality you choose.”scriving is the delightfully thought out industrialized magic of this world, and it is pure genius on robert jackson bennet’s part. it seems to me to be sort of one part completely original magic, one part of awakening magic from warbreaker and one part forgery from the emperor’s soul. i love it. so basically, these people have learnt they can write code onto an item that reprograms the items’ reality, making it disobey physics in a specific way. for instance they can scrive a bolt being fired from a crossbow and cause it to believe that it was not just fired from a bow, but has actually been falling straight down for years, making the bolt believe it has achieved a much higher velocity and resulting in the bolt actually being fired with incredibly explosive force. similar scriving is used in the weapons of the elite class such as for example, a rapier. it can be scrived to amplify its gravity so that it believes it is being wielded with the force of ten men and will effortlessly cut through a person or punch through solid walls. carriage wheels can be made to roll uphill without needing horses, wood can be scrived with the sigil for clay, making it inherently softer and easier to carve. the applications are endless and indeed vary varied throughout the book. and there is so much more to it. it’s almost unjust when you think about how much creativity the author has poured into writing such a wonderfully, intricate system. weeks, months, years? and then he easily explains it to us, the reader in a few minutes and sentences. it might give us only a basic understanding, but the underlying complexity is evident for any to see. i take my hat off.there is so much to love about this story. the characters were a joy to read, and thoroughly complex. i thought rjb did a wonderful job in not neglecting the growth of the supporting characters even though sancia of course gets the most attention in this department. while it was fascinating reading about her journey through this book and seeing her alter her perceptions about herself and those around her, the same can be said for the rest of the crew. i am attached to all of them. my personal favourite was clef, but the less said the better. i don’t want to spoil anything. the story teemed with worldbuilding, whether it be the history of the merchant houses and the city of tevanne or the mythical legends of the hierophants who supposedly were the first scriveners, only they wielded god-like powers and could change reality itself…“to put it plainly, they were the people who invented scriving, long, long, long ago. though no one’s even sure if they really were people. some say they were angels, or something a lot like angels. they were also called hierophants, and in most of the old stories they’re regarded as priests or monks or prophets. the first of them - the most notable of them - was crasedes the great. they used their scriving to do some very, very big things.”“like what?” asked sancia.“like move mountains,” said claudia. “carve out oceans. and annihilate cities, and build a massive, massive empire.”the writing flowed, information about the way scriving and sigils and more worked was conveyed concisely in my opinion (i have seen lots of complaints about info-dumping, but it never felt that way to me… maybe i like infodumps?) and there were lots of small moments of humour that were delightful. rjb also knows just how to evoke empathy from us readers and foundryside is no exception.wondrous, fast-paced, incredibly captivating and exciting - it is a read that entertains from beginning to end and had me begging for the sequel at its close. b.e.g.g.i.n.g.highly recommended.“remember - move thoughtfully, give freedom to others, and you’ll rarely do wrong…”eon van aeswagen, 9/10one of the most impressive aspects of bennett’s stories is his complete and total commitment to his ideas. this is what makes books like the divine cities trilogy and foundryside resonate with me long after i finish the story. not only does he conjure up some wildly original ideas – we’ll get to that in a moment – but he examines this idea from every angle, digs up the most interesting aspects of it, and turns it all into an engaging story. there’s a dedication that leaks through the pages; once the base concept is created, the rest of the book dives deep into pulling apart this concept and examining its impact on religion, history, architecture, housing, utilities, employment, the class divide, and on and on. this world is carefully constructed while keeping his ideas at the forefront, and his attentiveness to world-building is plain to see. it’s the thought that counts.so, what is the concept? in this world, there exists a means to play with the threads of reality. there’s our world, and then the curtain behind our world, made up of all the threads that allow the rules of our earth to function. but if you were to master a language of symbols, called ‘sigils,’ and inscribe them onto certain objects, you can change the rules of reality for that object. this process is called scriving. for example, if you knew the proper sigils to inscribe on a pair of shoes, you can ‘convince’ those shoes that gravity isn’t as strong as it is, thereby letting you make large jumps as if you were on the moon. or, say, if you were to scrive a soldier’s outfit to convince that its threads are made of a super-strong, unbreakable material, then suddenly you have a bulletproof army. if you’re powerful enough, you might even be able to scrive new rules of reality on living things. you see the potential, here.the setting of the story has a ‘19th century italy’ aesthetic to it. the plot revolves around sancia, an orphan thief with a horrendous past who lives in the slums on the outskirts of a large trading city. she is guarded, fierce, and tormented, yet very good at what she does. she has unique traits on being able to touch objects to understand their essence, history, and design, but there’s some pretty big caveats with this ability. she is also attuned to scrived objects, and can detect where they are, and hear them buzzing… almost as if they’re talking. why does she have these traits? perhaps it due to a scrived metal plate that was surgically implanted in her head against her will, years ago. one day, she agrees to a thieving job that seems to good to be true, as they are wont to do, and she becomes a central figure in a… well, just read it. there are other povs introduced throughout the story, but as mentioned above, the most impressive aspect is just how many layers deep bennett explores the idea of scriving, from scientific, historic, societal, and cultural viewpoints. it is also an action-packed adventure, with exciting set pieces, heists, battles, ever-escalating stakes, startling feats of ‘science,’ and truly wonderful and well-developed characters that you root for or outright hate.it’s rare that a story catches me off guard with so many inventive and thrilling ideas, yet still only scratches the surface of the directions it could take. the potential here is so vast; i see these ideas as prime material to turn into its own rpg world, or spinoff novels, or fill-in-the-blank. great writing, characters of substance, and thoughtful exploration of original ideas elevates foundryside into rare territory.-- adam weller, 9.1 / 109/10 an action packed story with all the high drama of heists, fights, intrigue, and surprises. it’s cleverly constructed, with a definite originality and a cinematic flair.


buy on amazon

reviews by emma davis and eon van aeswagen and adam weller
1 positive reader review(s) for foundryside
1 positive reader review(s) in total for the founders series








foundryside reader reviews

sahi from usa
the divine cities trilogy is one of my favorite reads from last year and probably one of the most impactful fantasies i have ever read. though i never went back to reading rjb’s earlier works, i knew i would want to check out his upcoming books. when i realized the arcs for his latest were available, i had my fingers crossed and i can’t describe the elation i felt when my request was approved. foundryside is another amazing action packed new fantasy series with interesting characters, a corrupt city and a rich history full of almost godlike beings. sancia garbo is a master thief in the city of tevanne who is on her way to her latest job, which might just provide a solution to all her troubles. when she realizes the object she has stolen might lead to devastating consequences in the wrong hands, it’s obvious that she might not be safe anymore. captain gregor dandolo is a righteous war veteran who just wants to bring some law and justice to his city where none exist and wants to start that by bringing the thief who stole from his warehouse and burned half the waterfront to justice. what starts off as a typical cops and robbers type of chase turns into much more when assassins start looking for sancia and gregor is caught in the crossfire. both of them join hands with an unlikely crew to dig deeper and figure out the conspiracy that might have far reaching consequences to their world. the worldbuilding here is rich and masterful and it comes alive in the skilled hands of rjb. tevanne is a city divided between the four merchant house compounds who are law unto themselves. anyone who can’t afford to live in the campos has to make do living in the slums between the compounds called the commons where there is hardly any food or work and every day is a struggle to survive. the merchant houses have become all powerful and rich using the magic system called “scriving”, which is a way of writing sigils on objects that make them slightly sentient and change their reality – like making a carriage believe it’s always going downhill so that it goes faster and without a driver (or) making an arrow believe it has been falling down from a much longer distance so that it hits with a very high velocity. as the story progresses, we get to know about more complicated scrivings, the scrivers who are responsible for imagining new possibilities while keeping ahead of the rival merchant houses and the washed out scrappers who work the underground market to provide some comfort to the poor people living in the commons. sancia is an excellent protagonist. she is fiery, angry and pragmatic, her survival skills are top notch and she is extremely brave. her past as a tortured slave still haunts her, leaving her with some form of ptsd. her special talents also make her a unique being in the city, someone who could be used for nefarious purposes but the way her character is written is very realistic and likable and she never falls into the “special snowflake” trope. gregor starts off as the stereotype of a soldier – proper, polite, righteous, thinks he can bring about a chance by just instituting laws – but he quickly sees through the rampant corruption of the merchant houses, especially by listening to sancia’s history and resolves that the city needs a revolution. orso is the master scriver of dandolo house and comes across as a pretentious academic, but he is ultimately just a seeker of knowledge and has his heart in the right place. his assistant berenice is talented and confident and can think on her feet even in dire situations rigging up scrived objects to get them out. claudia and gio are scrappers but are quick to help sancia not just for the money, but also the opportunity to do more with their scriving talents. and most important and my favorite is clef, the artifact that sancia initially stole who is so much more than just a key and the one around whom much of the story revolves. the story is full of action packed heists and chases, planning daring adventures and figuring out the history of the ancient hierophants, who did much more than just bending the reality of objects. the world and magic system is very original and unique and thoroughly detailed and i loved getting to know more about it. the writing is also very easy to read and not as intimidating or dense as other adult fantasies and i couldn’t put it down once i started. between all the life and death stakes that the characters are fighting, we also get some wit and humor – i especially enjoyed the conversations that sancia and clef had with scrived objects to make them do things they didn’t want to. just like i expect from rjb, we get some subtle commentary on the effects of slavery, how rampant and unchecked capitalism concentrates wealth and power in the few and lets the ordinary people suffer, how the pursuit of knowledge can run amok and blur the lines of morality. the parallels to our world are uncanny because these are all questions we do ponder on frequently, especially with the rising wealth gap and extreme advances in biotechnology and genomics. the magic system of “scriving” and the way sancia uses her talents to get around the loopholes in scrived objects is also eerily similar to computer programming, hacking and artificial intelligence and how the creations might get ahead of the creators one day. the author actually calls it “the magic equivalent of database management” and i think that’s a brilliant analogy. the city of tevanne is so dependent on scriving and rigged objects that even a minute failure in an essential component can bring down the whole infrastructure; this is a direct parallel to our over dependence on technology in everyday life and the constant threat of cyber warfare and collapse of technological infrastructure. the slavery in the plantations is an essential component of trade and wealth for tevanne and none of the merchant houses care for the conditions of the slaves or how they are tortured which is again how our world works; in most cases, we live in our own bubbles while human rights are violated every day in other parts of the world and we believe that it would never affect us. the deft way that the author incorporates all these themes into a fantasy heist story just shows his amazing talent as a writer. i’m so much in love with this book and it’s characters and i’m definitely looking forward to reading it again. this would be a delight for all robert jackson bennett’s fans and anyone who enjoys reading about well developed fantasy worlds with unique scientific magic systems.
10/10 (2019-09-28)









9.4/10 from 2 reviews

all robert jackson bennett reviews

foundryside (founders #1)
shorefall (founders #2)
the divine cities trilogy (the divine cities trilogy #1 - #3)
city of stairs (the divine cities: book 1)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the chimes by anna smaill






it’s very rare that i start a book, have to stop and then need to go back and try it again later, yet this is exactly what happened with the chimes. beginning the book whilst i was up against the final time crunch deadline for my phd, i found i was just not engaging with the story. i loved the writing as poetry, but completely missing nuances and insights, i was interested by the world, but unsettled by the disconnected nature of the plot.having got rid of those looming deadlines and thus being a lot less stressed i recently returned to the chimes, and was extremely glad i did. since for someone who loves exploring alien worlds, poetic writing and beauty in darkness, the chimes had it all and more besides.each morning and evening the chimes toll. at matins the great carillon sounds out onestory, the tale of how allbreaking drove the world into discord and how the order will create new harmony. at vespers the chimes ring out, casting their rhythm across the world, washing the people in beauty and destroying all long term memory. this is why everyone keeps their bag of memories close and tries to stick to a trade where their physical body memory will keep them moving, since there is nothing worse than becoming memory lost.following his mother’s death, simon wythen has undertaken the dangerous journey to london, for reasons he cannot remember, his only guide the snatch of a trade song, his only possessions his bag of memories. yet there is more to simon and his memories than he knows, and a chance meeting with the mysterious and troubled lucian leads simon to discover truth about himself, the world and the chimes.the first thing to say about the chimes, is that it is not an easy or accessible book, neither however is it simply obscure for obscurity’s own sake or deliberately slow paced. smaill writes in short, immediate sentences, but with a strange unsettling rhythm, a knack for melody and structure that makes the whole book have a dreamlike, surreal quality, even when describing things as literally earthy as simon mud larking in the river thames, or the smells, rhymes and rhythms of street traders. smaill is both able to write with enough poetry and nuance to make simon’s world one of immediate experience, and yet at the same time not bog the plot down in description to the point that the thread is lost, indeed one reason why the chimes is such a difficult book to read is that it requires constant attention from the reader, both to stay abreast of where simon is and what he’s experiencing, and to fill in gaps of back story and understanding which obviously simon literally cannot know.the world smaill creates is a fascinating and very alien one. since people have no short term memory, everyone carries a set of object memories to remind them who they are. likewise, since repetitive body memory is the surest way to keep a person from losing themselves, the england of the chimes is almost medieval with small villages, guilds and prentices, (not to mention the ritual sounding of the chimes themselves), since all body memories are strengthened through work and structure.yet, despite this there is no sense that people have lost their intelligence, don’t expect any luddite aspersions about “the horrors of the old world” or pantomime ignorant peasants here.another central fact about the chimes, which might make the book very appealing to some, and yet inaccessible to others, is the fact that the world of the chimes is bound by music. simon’s speech is peppered with musical terms, such as subito for suddenly or presto and lento for fast and slow. furthermore, in a world with no written word, music takes on a new significance, with each trader or guild having their own song, and directions and information being conveyed through melody, indeed solfège; the hand signals for the do-re-mi form of music notation is virtually a separate sign language in itself.but smaill doesn’t stop at just the music’s part in the culture, she goes one step further, with music being a constant living breathing presence, used to communicate and even kill, indeed rarely have i come across a writer who can convey in words quite so beautifully the different currents, colours and melodies of music, their emotions and interweaving landscapes, and yet make music itself such a concrete and definitive force in the book’s world, rather than just a side line meditation or a way of aggrandising her characters.another thing which makes the chimes extremely unique is that smaill has to break so many rules of writing simply by virtue of her central premise. at one stage for example, we have a time skip and are suddenly presented with a character who we’d not previously met simply because according to simon’s view he couldn’t remember her arriving so she’d always been there, while a significant part of the first half of the novel involves simon and lucian trying to piece together what actually happened in the first ten minutes during simon’s arrival in london, though smaill is far too careful a writer to make this simply a regurgitation of scenes we’d already seen, and the mix of details we understand being discovered along with new details of simon’s memory is a fascinating one.similarly, later on several characters we know and like are simply abandoned whilst simon and lucian go on a journey because (as lucian points out), they will forget them soon enough.yet despite this, smaill manages to do more than present us with just a particularly intriguing setting. simon is a complex character with his own history, indeed in many ways finding out about simon’s own past is just as compelling as finding out about the world. while smaill does give simon a special talent, one truly fascinating thing about the chimes is that it’s never clear how much of simon’s abilities are his own and how much simply a facet of the world he comes from and the ways he perceives it. for example, early on simon finds a nugget of palladium (the pale lady as it’s called), and on the strength of that is recruited to five rover pact, a group of scavengers who spend their time salvaging palladium from the river thames. yet, despite simon’s eerie descriptions of how the presence of the pale lady creates pockets of silence, i was never precisely sure to what extent this was simon’s own perceptions or something strange about the palladium itself. what is even more astounding, is that i didn’t care, indeed the chimes is one of those very rare books where you take the mysterious at face value simply because it is part of the world, and matters which in other authorial hands might seem like jarring inconsistencies or skated over parts of an illogical system of magic or powers, are simply part of the whole experience, indeed in many ways the chimes is a book better experienced than analysed, despite the number of intriguing questions it asks.one particularly fascinating character is lucian. it only becomes apparent slowly that lucian is blind, indeed i applaud the way smaill not only writes a blind character who is neither so helpless that they have no personality, or so awesome that they’re for all intents and purposes not blind at all. lucian has skills of sound and memory, and in a world where music plays such a major part in everyday life blindness is not perhaps the stigma it is in reality. yet at the same time, lucian is not perfect, there are times he falls over things or needs to take someone’s arm. i also appreciate that smaill is perhaps one of the few writers to recognise that many blind people do have residual vision; the way smaill describes lucian’s changing visual acuity in different lighting conditions or different environments sounded very familiar.despite this “blind” is not lucian’s only character trait, and his history and motivations are complex ones which play a large part in the book’s ongoing plot, indeed though simon is our point of view character, the chimes is as much lucian’s story as simon’s.it is not just in lucian that smaill creates complex three dimensional characters, at one stage we do meet a peripheral character who is deaf, (presenting interesting questions in a world so based around sound), and smaill also includes a romance between two men. yet in no cases does she fall into the trap of making any character just “the gay one”, or “the deaf one”, or of seeming to try to be inclusive just for inclusions sake.another area where smaill is to be commended is how she introduces the fact that the world of the chimes is not just a post-apocalyptic, but a dystopic one. we are perhaps a bit too used to modern dystopic fiction following the style of the hunger games, worlds where the oppression of the ruling elite is as overt as a punch to the face. in the chimes however, the oppression is highly subtle, indeed we barely hear of or see the order until halfway through the novel, and though the order certainly commits its share of atrocities, like most of the rest of the book the atrocities have a bizarre, nightmarish edge to them, not the least because of the rather offbeat way we hear about them. indeed, even when the horrors become openly visible smaill’s touch is both subtle and unsettling, whether hinting at a past of sexual abuse of one character, or showing the after affects of the order’s displeasure on another.one problem i did have with the order, is it often isn’t precisely clear what their goal or philosophy is. we do get a picture of their monastic dedication to pure music and their desire to share this with the world and a direct reference that the destruction of memory caused by the chimes is (in their view), due to people’s weakness, despite their rather hypocritical use of sound proofing to prevent the chimes affecting their own people. however, i did not exactly understand how a desire to dedicate one’s life to music could at the same time cause rigid social control, unless perhaps the order’s control was only a side effect of their true aim, after all there have certainly been plenty of groups in history who have enacted their share of atrocities and destructions of freedom ostensibly for a purer, or nobler end, though i do wish smaill had made this a little more overt, and thus give some grounding to the questions she asks about freedom and individual perception.part of the problem in understanding the order also occurs because the book’s second half does feel slightly rushed.  whilst much of the book concerns exploring the back story of some characters, what is done with this back story is not explored as thoroughly as it could be, even taking into account the fact that some characters are necessarily simply forgotten. one highly significant character who plays a pivotal and unexpected role in the book’s climax is introduced only towards the end, whilst a seeming deal with the devil (or at least with a capricious and beautifully described old prophetess), which simon makes three quarters through the book has far less consequence for simon than it likely should’ve done. a shame since the scene involving said prophetess, the mystique of simon’s deal and the position she puts him in are truly frightening. i also wish smaill had explained the full significance of a rhyme simon learns early on in the book containing names such as hardy, odin and thaw, names which obviously have significance in the world of the chimes, but whose significance is not adequately explained.i also, as a minor stylistic point wish smaill had done a little more of distinguishing the occasions simon sees what he refers to as “old code”, that is printed writing that he cannot read and the books actual narration, since sometimes it almost sounded as if simon could read what he was seeing, even though smaill obviously just wanted to reproduce the shapes of the letters simon saw without the sense.despite the fact that i wish we’d spent a little more time around the order, the book’s climax is absolutely perfect, bringing together character threads, dark poetry and the final choice in quite literally a crashing crescendo, with the book’s musical theme followed through to its ultimate conclusion. though the chimes does end on something of a final question, it’s a question which is left for the reader to ponder, rather than making the book feel unfinished. similarly while the ending isn’t exactly a “happily ever after”, smaill does manage to indicate some ending point for her characters.the chimes is one of the most difficult, and yet most rewarding books i’ve read for quite some time. breaking so many rules of writing to explore its central premise, yet blending together dark poetry, a truly unique post-apocalyptic world, love, music and memory into one great symphonic whole that is far greater than the sum of its parts, and an experience which you won’t easily forget.10/10 memorable


buy on amazon

review by dark








the chimes reader reviews



9.6/10 from 1 reviews

all anna smaill reviews

the chimes 






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




the rage of dragons by evan winter
(the burning #1)





the rage of dragons is an african-inspired revenge fantasy novel. this is worthy of attention in and of itself, simply because fantasy is dominated by white male authors who write about white male characters.  admittedly i enjoy reading such books, though it’s refreshing to see more diverse books appearing in the fantasy genre in recent years. there are other voices out there, and they really are worth listening to.the story begins in the middle of a battle, which sets the tone for the martial focus for the book. there is so much action and so much struggle for victory across these pages. dragons are the absolute last resort, a weapon that should only be used when there is no other choice because it is such a terribly powerful one. the prologue captures this very quickly, and as the book progresses the significance of that first scene is later expanded upon with a great amount of detail which really helped to strengthen the world building. and this is a world that is slightly different to the eurocentric medieval fantasy that many of us are used to. it’s all in the small details, the land is hot and barren, the warriors fight with bronze swords and bone spears. all these simple things, along with the names of characters and places, help to give the book a distinct feel. tau is a solid protagonist and his reactions to his circumstances are entirely normal and human. it’s easy to become invested in him. he didn’t want to be a warrior and he was looking for a way out, but the injustice of his world took someone from him, so he becomes driven by revenge and blood. and judging by his determination, he will clearly get what he wants. he lives to train, and eventually becomes skilful enough to best opponents twice his size. the book took a somewhat predictable direction because of this, but the strength of tau’s convictions and personality made up for the linearity. the action was also constant, never relenting until the final chapters.i enjoyed the magic system, the idea that a “gifted” could use special powers to improve the strength and speed of warriors in battle. the two work together to ensure victory. it remined me somewhat of kursed in thor: dark world and it gave the fighting (especially the large-scale battles) an added element, making them more complex and interesting to read about. it wasn’t as simple as knife work; tactics were needed to bring down powerful foes. and whilst i’m on the subject of the marvel cinematic universe, i recommend this to fans of black panther because it is put together just as well and has a similar feel.overall, this is a strong first novel in the series. it’s unique and offers a totally different version of fantasy. orbit were totally right to snap this up (it was previously only a self-published title.) more please.sean barrs, 8.5/10"we know your witches are dying," shouted the warlord, near the edge of hearing. "we know it as we know that, in the coming cycles, you will have too few to call the fire-demons. we know it and offered you peace. you saw that as weakness, paying it back with the blood of our innocent. queen of demons, what you saw was kindness, not weakness. queen of demons, what you will see is vengeance, righteous in cause and unholy in deliverance."revenge is a dish best served cold - this we know. it serves as a powerful motivational tool, but one that can be difficult to tell. the entire focus cannot just be vengeance. there has to be something more.the rage of dragons is a large tome that definitely requires a substantial time investment. it's nearly 550 pages, which isn't all that huge in size, but what it contains inside is a story that you must take care to give your full attention. it is absolutely massive in scope. however, i never felt overwhelmed or bogged down with information.similar to josiah bancroft & jonathan french, the rage of dragons was originally a self-published release (back in 2017) before getting scooped up by orbit. the folks there clearly know what they are doing, because holy forking shirtballs!! also? check out that stunning cover art by karla ortiz (you must take a look at her work if you are unfamiliar with it) & designed by the super-talent that is lauren panepinto.immediately the rage of dragons thrusts the reader into a battle that is already in progress. queen taifa & the omehi people have arrived on the shores of xidda & wish to take over. the local inhabitants, the hedeni, are so very very opposed to that idea.explosive violence ensues.from there, winter builds his story from the ground up, with the main story taking place two centuries after the intense prologue. centered around tau, a lower-class omehi warrior.tau didn't start out striving to be a leader, in fact he wanted to settle down somewhere quiet & live a peaceful life. but now he must follow an ambitious plan in order to avenge his loss.at one point i saw this referred to as game of thrones meets gladiator. it's certainly got a gladiator feel along with the politics of game of thrones, but for me i would say that it is closer to a blood song meets red rising vibe than anything else. admittedly, some of that is because of the trope that i will never tire of - an institute of sorts that focuses on learning & combat. stabby, glorious combat! in this case, tau training to be an ihashe, an elite military fighter.this is a hard book to describe, without getting into spoiler territory. there is just so much going on.it's quintessential sword & sorcery, yet one of the few african-inspired epic fantasies out there, which is completely refreshing. these are stories that absolutely must be told!there are many, many, many themes throughout this beautifully crafted tale - among them revenge, war, politics, inequality & love."a dragon had been called, and someone would have to die."the rage of dragons explodes at a breakneck pace. complex characters, dragons, revenge, all the stabby-stabby-stab-stab. i adored everything about this book! the cover, the chapter titles, the maps, the wee dragon on the spine, the notes from winter at the back... it was just fucking phenomenal. truly.what a brilliant debut!holly grimdragon, 10/10a heart-stoppingly ferocious fantasy achievement, the rage of dragons is exhilarating in its execution and an enthralling debut you won’t want to miss.let’s not deny it. we have all bought a book based on its cover alone. most of the times we get lucky and the story is great, but now and then we feel like fools for making such impulsive purchases without checking reviews. the rage of dragons lured me in with just such a cover in a moment of weakness, but i can happily say the contents match, if not surpass the exterior. before i get carried away though, let’s take a moment to appreciate the art of karla ortiz.the story starts with a roar of a prologue, dropping us into a massive battle that immediately thrills with its sheer scope, breathtaking duels, bloodthirsty ferocity and glimpses of unknown magic. it’s reminiscent of the prologue that brandon sanderson wrote in the way of kings, in that it is a glimpse of a terrible event with far-reaching consequences for the story we are about to follow and it takes place in the distant past. as the story shifts to our present, we meet our protagonist tau, who is no-one important.he is a lesser among his people, the omehi, whose society is based on a caste system. tau serves his betters as is his place and expected of him. some would rage against these shackles and want more than they are given, but tau, for the most part, is content. he has a plan, and with some minor luck he will be able to avoid becoming a soldier; fodder in the everlasting war his people fight against the natives. if his plan succeeds, peace and the woman he loves will be within his grasp. fate is ever a cruel and fickle mistress though, and events cause a dramatic shift in tau’s future outlook, giving birth to a burning hatred within him and a plot device that stokes the flames of my bookish heart:vengeance.to quote one of my favourite films:"my name is maximus decimus meridius, commander of the armies of the north, general of the felix legions, loyal servant to the true emperor, marcus aurelius. father to a murdered son, husband to a murdered wife. and i will have my vengeance, in this life or the next."goosebumps…i don’t want to cover the plot much more than that, because this is such a great experience of a book, but i will say that tau is consumed by an overwhelming anger, hatred and the need for revenge, and through sheer will and determination sets himself on the path of becoming an elite soldier in order to fulfill his vengeance. his single-mindedness is an effective tool that helps his quest of becoming the weapon he needs to be, but boy could it be frustrating at times. so much so that at one point i complained to a friend that i wanted to slap tau in the hope of removing his blinkers. his character motivations are always believable though, and i found myself easily invested in him, despite his moments of madness, bad judgement or stubbornness. tau is not always likeable, but he is human, and just like any of us, fallible. how do we react in the face of violence, murder, bloodshed? can we rise above and find a path to peace? can we break the cycle of violence? turn the other cheek? forgive? these are some of the questions that evan winter asks of his creations, and there is a delight in seeing how they respond.speaking of the characters... the only quibble i have with the story is something i noticed about halfway through that felt off. there is a distinct lack of women featured in the story, apart from tau’s love interest, zuri, and one other. and it is weird because the omehi venerates females. they are above men in standing, with many women in powerful positions. they are ruled by a queen for example, and their magic wielders known as gifted, are all extremely powerful women. thinking back on the story, i think there was a female warrior among the enemies of the omehi, so perhaps it’s a cultural thing specific to them. i just felt it needed a mention, as once you notice - it’s hard to ignore. hopefully, they get more page time in book two, because the little bit of them we see shows interesting, complex characters that can add even more to the story.hints of a larger world are present as early as the gripping opening sequence, but the rage of dragons chooses to tell us a much more intimate, personal story of one man’s vengeance, and as such we are confined to a small corner of what sounds like a vast, imaginative world. the author has mentioned that the story is african-inspired and i imagine i enjoyed this facet a bit more than most people will, recognising many of the foreign words. i was born in a place called kwazulu natal and zulu is one of the main languages. words such as indlovu (elephants) as a name for a warrior group or inyoku (snake) for a warrior that is said to strike very fast or even isihogo, which means hell, are prominent throughout and i loved knowing their meaning. although i have heard that the words used are xhosa, they are similar if not the same as many of the zulu words that i know (i have since read that they are mutually intelligible) and they reinforced the african feel, deepening my immersion.“i can't imagine a world where the man holding a sword does not have the last say over the man without one.”with vengeance being tau’s main driving force, it is not surprising that scintillating action takes centre stage in the rage of dragons. and i mean, front and centre. major battles, skirmishes and duels are prevalent throughout, but that would mean nothing if they weren't well written, and boyyyyyyy are they well written. evan winter should not be able to pull off this level of skill in a debut, but he must have made a sacrifice to the writing gods because he is clearly gifted. scintillating, immersive, vivid, ferocious and cinematic - there are not many authors able to match the pulse-pounding action scenes that the rage of dragons brings to the table and i couldn't get enough of it. five hundred plus pages? who knew? the pace never flagged, and even though this is a chonker of a book it was over too soon. the sequel, please mr winter!“that’s the price. life is nothing more than moments in time. to achieve greatness, you have to give up those moments. you have to give your life to your goal.”without a doubt, the rage of dragons is a stellar debut and easily one of the best books i have read this year. don’t take my word for it though. read it, experience it for yourself and remember evan winter’s name; he is going to be a giant in fantasy.oh, did i mention that there are dragons?should have led with that probably :)we should forgive our enemies, but not before they are hanged. - heinrich heineeon van aeswagen, 9/109/10 a strong african-inspired revenge fantasy novel


buy on amazon

reviews by sean barrs and holly grimdragon and eon van aswegen
2 positive reader review(s) for the rage of dragons
2 positive reader review(s) in total for the the burning series








the rage of dragons reader reviews

holly from us
the rage of dragons explodes at a breakneck pace. complex characters, dragons, revenge, all the stabby-stabby-stab-stab. i adored everything about this book! the cover, the chapter titles, the maps, the wee dragon on the spine, the notes from winter at the back... it was just fucking phenomenal. truly.
10/10 (2020-06-29)







eon from south africa
without a doubt, the rage of dragons is a stellar debut and easily one of the best books i have read this year. don’t take my word for it though. read it, experience it for yourself and remember evan winter’s name; he is going to be a giant in fantasy.
10/10 (2020-06-29)









9.7/10 from 3 reviews

all evan winter reviews

the rage of dragons (the burning #1)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review











fantasy book review


menu





menu

home
top 100
fantasy books of the year
best fantasy series
fantasy sub genres
interviews




middlegame by seanan mcguire






“words can be whispered bullet-quick when no one’s looking, and words don’t leave blood or bruises behind. words disappear without a trace. that’s what makes them so powerful. that’s what makes them so important.that’s what makes them hurt so much.”seanan mcguire’s stories are like the tardis. there is just so much within! more than you could ever imagine. deceptively so. being such a huge fan of mcguire’s, you would think i would learn my lesson and stop finding myself surprised after each book. yet i can’t. because she continuously ups the game. just when i think i’ve read the best thing she has ever written... she tops it. just when it seems like this character is the most complex... here comes roger and dodger. just when this plot seems the most interesting, captivating, brutal... oh hey middlegame!! seanan mcguire is a glorious weaver of words and we are so incredibly lucky to have her talent out there for us all to absorb.this was one of my most anticipated reads of 2019 and holy forking shirtballs!!! it completely blew me away. it felt like an extension of the wayward children universe, yet something entirely all it’s own and i am here all damn day for it!!!“everything is perfect. everything is doomed.”middlegame is about two undeniably gifted children. roger and dodger.roger middleton is from massachusetts. he adores reading, english class, words... he loves language with everything that he has. he struggles with math, however (relatable af!).dodger cheswich lives in california. she’s a brilliant mathematician and idolizes ian malcolm. numbers are her greatest passion. she has trouble with spelling and isn’t much into reading.“his genius and hers were never the same.”one day while roger is working on a multiplication worksheet, he hears a voice from out of nowhere. a girls voice. dodger. the two have a radical connection. one that appears impossible to explain. they begin to help each other out with their respective classes that they have difficulty in.roger and dodger are imaginary friends. mental companions. quantum entangled… creations, if you will. they have the same eyes. they find out that they were both part of closed adoptions. they are identical, but not. twins... of sorts.their lives intersect throughout the years, until they eventually meet at the berkeley campus.james reed is an alchemist. he was created by asphodel baker, the greatest alchemist of her time. he dresses like a ray bradbury character and is just as intriguing as one. reed is the puppet master of this story. he controls many people as pawns in his game of chess.he also made the twins.i cannot begin to express just how much i fucking adored this book! i’m not exaggerating when i say that i felt every word within these pages. from the moment i opened it for the first time until long after having finished... this story not only completely captured my imagination, but my whole entire soul. it bled into me, the way that dodger bleeds into roger. the most exquisite gut-punch.“the improbable road spools onward, and outward, and the journey continues from here.”alternate timelines, manifestations, hands of glory, alchemy, doctrine of ethos and immortality and and and goddamn. mcguire provides a clinic in storytelling with middlegame. this is her magnum opus (so far!) it’s magical... truly magical. i could not love it more!!!10/10 mcguire is a glorious weaver of words and we are so incredibly lucky to have her talent out there for us all to absorb


buy on amazon

review by holly grimdragon








middlegame reader reviews



9.8/10 from 1 reviews

all seanan mcguire reviews

middlegame 
rosemary and rue (october daye #1)
the brightest fell (october daye #11)
night and silence (october daye #12)
a local habitation (october daye #2)
an artificial night (october daye #3)
late eclipses (october daye #4)
one salt sea (october daye #5)
ashes of honour (october daye #6)
chimes at midnight (october daye #7)
the winter long (october daye #8)
a red rose chain (october daye #9)






top 100 fantasy books of all time

looking for great fantasy books? take a look at the 100 pages we rate highest






fantasy series we recommend

there's nothing better than finding a fantasy series you can lose yourself in






fantasy books of the year

our fantasy books of the year, from 2006 to 2021









© 2023 fantasy book review








